uwp/apps-for-xbox/partner-center-xbox.md, before:

---
title: Partner Center for Xbox
description: This section describes how to set up your Partner Center account for app development on Xbox
ms.date: 04/13/2022
ms.topic: article
keywords: Xbox
ms.author: HiHaile
author: Hilina-H
---

# Setting up your Partner Center account 

Creating a partner center account is the first step in bringing your app to Xbox. Please consider the items below before getting started:

- Do you or your company have an existing Partner Center account? If so, there is no need to create a new account; you can add new projects to the existing account.
- Be sure to select the right type of Partner Center account which is “Business Developer Account”.
- To simplify the verification process, use an email with a corporate domain.
- To go through the account set-up, please use the following process: [Opening developer account](/windows/apps/publish/partner-center/opening-a-developer-account?pivots=store-installer-msix)

## Common Issues

### Business Verification Document  

- [https://support.serviceshub.microsoft.com/supportforbusiness/create  ](https://support.serviceshub.microsoft.com/supportforbusiness/create  )

### Adding members of the team to the partner center account 

- [Add users, groups, and Azure AD applications to your Partner Center account](/windows/apps/publish/partner-center/add-users-groups-and-azure-ad-applications)

- Note that this process must be conducted by the individual with administrative privileges. 

### Partner Center Analytics  

- For App performance inquiries please refer to [Analyze app performance](/windows/apps/publish/analytics)

### Debugging crash rate through Partner Center

- [Health report](/windows/apps/publish/health-report)

### Ratings and reviews  

- Add the in-app rating APIs to your application to improve your ratings  

- [Request ratings and reviews for your app](../monetize/request-ratings-and-reviews.md)

### Beta Testing  

[Beta testing and targeted distribution](/windows/apps/publish/beta-testing-and-targeted-distribution)

## Updating banking info  

- Login to your Partner Center account and click on the gear icon in upper right-hand corner.
- Select **Account settings**. It should take you to a page that has a menu on the left.
- Select the items under the **Payout and tax** section and confirm if you have banking information.
- Partner project 6 and then 6 IDs, need to link with what you have for partner center account from Visual Studio.

Commit message:

Update Settings up partner center account topic re Hilia-h (#3745)

uwp/apps-for-xbox/partner-center-xbox.md, after:

---
title: Partner Center for Xbox
description: This section describes how to set up your Partner Center account for app development on Xbox
ms.date: 08/31/2023
ms.topic: article
keywords: Xbox
ms.author: HiHaile
author: Hilina-H
---

# Setting up your Partner Center account 

Creating a partner center account is the first step in bringing your app to Xbox. Please consider the items below before getting started:

- Do you or your company have an existing Partner Center account? If so, there is no need to create a new account; you can add new projects to the existing account.
- Be sure to select the right type of Partner Center account which is “Business Developer Account”.
- To simplify the verification process, use an email with a corporate domain.
- To go through the account set-up, please use the following process: [Opening developer account](/windows/apps/publish/partner-center/opening-a-developer-account?pivots=store-installer-msix)

## Common Issues

### Business Verification Document  

- [https://support.serviceshub.microsoft.com/supportforbusiness/create  ](https://support.serviceshub.microsoft.com/supportforbusiness/create  )

### Adding members of the team to the partner center account 

- [Add users, groups, and Azure AD applications to your Partner Center account](/windows/apps/publish/partner-center/add-users-groups-and-azure-ad-applications)

- Note that this process must be conducted by the individual with administrative privileges. 

### Partner Center Analytics  

- For App performance inquiries please refer to [Analyze app performance](/windows/apps/publish/analytics)

### Debugging crash rate through Partner Center

- [Health report](/windows/apps/publish/health-report)

### Ratings and reviews  

- Add the in-app rating APIs to your application to improve your ratings  

- [Request ratings and reviews for your app](../monetize/request-ratings-and-reviews.md)

### Beta Testing  

[Beta testing and targeted distribution](/windows/apps/publish/beta-testing-and-targeted-distribution)

### Updating banking information

- Login to your Partner Center account and click on the gear icon in upper right-hand corner.
- Select **Account settings**. It should take you to a page that has a menu on the left.
- Select the items under the **Payout and tax** section and confirm if you have banking information.
- Partner project 6 and then 6 IDs, need to link with what you have for partner center account from Visual Studio.

### Uploading your symbols to Partner Center

Uploading Symbols through Partner Center is essential to enable crash analytics. For details on how to upload your 
symbols through Partner Center, see this documentation:

 [Package a desktop or UWP app in Visual Studio](/windows/msix/package/packaging-uwp-apps#create-your-app-package-upload-file-manually)
