hub/apps/windows-app-sdk/dwritecore.md, before:

---
title: DWriteCore (Windows App SDK)
description: DWriteCore is the Windows App SDK implementation of DirectWrite.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/09/2021
keywords: 
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Render text with DWriteCore 

DWriteCore is the [Windows App SDK](index.md) implementation of [DirectWrite](/windows/win32/directwrite/direct-write-portal) (DirectWrite is the DirectX API for high-quality text rendering, resolution-independent outline fonts, and full Unicode text and layout support).

DWriteCore provides access to all current DirectWrite features for text rendering, including a device-independent text layout system, hardware-accelerated text, multi-format text, and wide language support.

For more details about DWriteCore&mdash;including guidance for setting up your development environment, and code examples for programming with it&mdash;see [DWriteCore overview](/windows/win32/directwrite/dwritecore-overview) in the DirectWrite documentation.

## Prerequisites to using DWriteCore

To use DWriteCore APIs in the Windows App SDK:

1. Download and install the latest release of the Windows App SDK. For more information, see [Install tools for the Windows App SDK](set-up-your-development-environment.md).
2. Follow the instructions to [Create your first WinUI 3 project](../winui/winui3/create-your-first-winui3-app.md) or to [use the Windows App SDK in an existing project](use-windows-app-sdk-in-existing-project.md).

To learn more about the availability of DWriteCore in the Windows App SDK, see [release channels](release-channels.md).

Commit message:

update links for WASDK tools, get started (#4537)
* update links for WASDK tools, get started

* fix link

hub/apps/windows-app-sdk/dwritecore.md, after:

---
title: DWriteCore (Windows App SDK)
description: DWriteCore is the Windows App SDK implementation of DirectWrite.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 03/09/2021
keywords: 
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Render text with DWriteCore 

DWriteCore is the [Windows App SDK](index.md) implementation of [DirectWrite](/windows/win32/directwrite/direct-write-portal) (DirectWrite is the DirectX API for high-quality text rendering, resolution-independent outline fonts, and full Unicode text and layout support).

DWriteCore provides access to all current DirectWrite features for text rendering, including a device-independent text layout system, hardware-accelerated text, multi-format text, and wide language support.

For more details about DWriteCore&mdash;including guidance for setting up your development environment, and code examples for programming with it&mdash;see [DWriteCore overview](/windows/win32/directwrite/dwritecore-overview) in the DirectWrite documentation.

## Prerequisites to using DWriteCore

To use DWriteCore APIs in the Windows App SDK:

1. Download and install the latest release of the Windows App SDK. For more information, see [Get started with WinUI](../get-started/start-here.md).
2. Create a new project as described in Get started with WinUI, or follow the instructions to [use the Windows App SDK in an existing project](use-windows-app-sdk-in-existing-project.md).

To learn more about the availability of DWriteCore in the Windows App SDK, see [release channels](release-channels.md).
