hub/apps/publish/microsoft-store-app-badge.md, before:

---
description: This section announces the new Store badge and describes how you can use it for your app
title: The new Microsoft Store app badge
ms.topic: article
author: desigrit
ms.author: raober
ms.date: 05/07/2024
keywords: uwp, microsoft store, store badge, app badge
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# The new Microsoft Store badges are here

We’ve refreshed the Microsoft Store badge to feature the new logo, with a more refined call-to-action to give users more confidence to acquire your app. These will go live on our [badge creator page](https://apps.microsoft.com/badge) on **August 12, 2024** in all supported languages.

If you’re a developer with an app published on the Microsoft Store, and if you’ve been using these badges externally, you should switch to the new design once they’re live.

## Old

| <img src="../images/old-badge-dark.png" width="200" alt="Old Store badge for dark mode">  | <img src="../images/old-badge-light.png" width="200" alt="Old Store badge for light mode"> |
| ------------- | ------------- |

## New

| <img src="../images/new-badge-dark.png" width="256" alt="New Store badge for dark mode">  | <img src="../images/new-badge-light.png" width="256" alt="New Store badge for light mode"> |
| ------------- | ------------- |


If you don’t have a badge yet, visit the [Microsoft Store badge creator page](https://apps.microsoft.com/badge) to choose the options that work best for your badge and hit Generate to create one for your app.

### Some tips to make the most of your badge
* We’ll have a different badge color for dark and light modes, and you should pick what works best for your website or allow it to be automatically detected.
* We recommend using the standard JavaScript-based badge, but if your website doesn’t use JavaScript, you’ll be able to create a non-JS version too.
* Remember to add a campaign ID with a unique string so you can better track your traffic sources on the Microsoft Store Partner Center dashboard.

Please avoid altering the badge – including changing the color, the text, or the elements within.

Commit message:

Adding a bit more information to the new badge page for existing developers (#4643)
Added a note mentioning that existing badge users would be auto-updated

hub/apps/publish/microsoft-store-app-badge.md, after:

---
description: This section announces the new Store badge and describes how you can use it for your app
title: The new Microsoft Store app badge
ms.topic: article
author: desigrit
ms.author: raober
ms.date: 05/07/2024
keywords: uwp, microsoft store, store badge, app badge
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# The new Microsoft Store badges are here

We’ve refreshed the Microsoft Store badge to feature the new logo, with a more refined call-to-action to give users more confidence to acquire your app. These will go live on our [badge creator page](https://apps.microsoft.com/badge) on **August 12, 2024** in all supported languages.

## How do I get the new badge?

If you’re a developer with an app published on the Microsoft Store, and if you’ve been using these badges externally using code from our badge generator page linked above, you'll get the new badge automatically once it goes live. However, if you've got a custom implementation of the badge on your website, you should switch to the new design.

## Old

| <img src="../images/old-badge-dark.png" width="200" alt="Old Store badge for dark mode">  | <img src="../images/old-badge-light.png" width="200" alt="Old Store badge for light mode"> |
| ------------- | ------------- |

## New

| <img src="../images/new-badge-dark.png" width="256" alt="New Store badge for dark mode">  | <img src="../images/new-badge-light.png" width="256" alt="New Store badge for light mode"> |
| ------------- | ------------- |


If you don’t have a badge yet, visit the [Microsoft Store badge creator page](https://apps.microsoft.com/badge) to choose the options that work best for your badge and hit Generate to create one for your app.

### Some tips to make the most of your badge
* We’ll have a different badge color for dark and light modes, and you should pick what works best for your website or allow it to be automatically detected.
* We recommend using the standard JavaScript-based badge, but if your website doesn’t use JavaScript, you’ll be able to create a non-JS version too.
* Remember to add a campaign ID with a unique string so you can better track your traffic sources on the Microsoft Store Partner Center dashboard.

Please avoid altering the badge – including changing the color, the text, or the elements within.
