hub/apps/publish/whats-new-msix-app-overview-page.md, before:

---
description: Explore the new changes on the MSIX app overview page.
title: Whats new - MSIX app overview page
ms.date: 03/06/2024
ms.topic: article
keywords: windows 10, uwp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
# What's new - MSIX app overview page

The MSIX application overview page has received some updates to simplify the navigation and enhance the user experience. The following are some of the key changes:

## 1.	Submission sections can be directly accessed from the application overview page

Previously, the developer had to go to the submission overview page to see the status of each of the submission sections of their product.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-submission-overview.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-submission-overview.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix submission overview page.":::

Now, the submission sections and their respective status are directly accessible and visible from the application overview page. The old submission overview page is no longer available. The “Submit for certification” button has now been kept at the Product release section which comprises of Product submission.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-submission-sections.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-submission-sections.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission sections.":::

## 2.	Delete submission and Delete product options are now clubbed together

In previous experience, to delete a product, a developer had to delete a submission first and then delete the product.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-delete-submission.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-delete-submission.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix app overview page showing delete submission scenario.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-delete-product.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-delete-product.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix app overview page showing delete product scenario.":::

In the new experience, a developer cannot delete just the draft submission. If a developer clicks on ‘Delete product’, the existing submission and the product will be deleted. The ‘Delete product’ option can be found adjacent to the product name on the top of the page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-delete-product.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-delete-product.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix app overview page showing delete product scenario.":::

> [!NOTE] 
> The ‘Delete product’ option will be applicable only for the first draft submission. After the product is live, developer cannot delete the product. 

## 3.	App status is now shown on the application overview page

The application status (eg: In draft, In certification, In Microsoft Store, Update in draft etc.) is now shown on the top of the application overview page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-draft-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-draft-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission in draft.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-certification-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-certification-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission in certification.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-in-store-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-in-store-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission in Microsoft Store.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-unavailable-in-store-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-unavailable-in-store-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission unavailable in Store.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-update-in-draft-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-update-in-draft-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing update submission in draft.":::

## 4.	Certification status, Cancel certification, and Certification report are now accessible from the application overview page

Previously, the developer had to click on 'view progress' to see the exact step in certification of their product. Similarly, to cancel certification they had to click on ‘view progress’ and then from certification status page, they could cancel certification for their product.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-certification-step-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-certification-step-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix overview page showing certification status for the submission.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-cancel-certification.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-cancel-certification.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old certification status page showing cancel certification option.":::

Now, the certification status and cancel certification option are directly available on the application overview page. If the product has failed certification, the certification report can be accessed through “View report” CTA.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-cancel-certification.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-cancel-certification.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing cancel certification option.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-certification-failed.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-certification-failed.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing certification failure scenario.":::

## 5.	Publishing hold options are now accessible directly from the application overview page

Previously, if the developer had to edit the publishing hold options when the product was in certification phase, they had to go to certification status page to modify the hold option.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-certification-step-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-certification-step-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix overview page showing certification status for the submission.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-change-publish-date.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-change-publish-date.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old certification status page showing how to change publish date.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-change-publish-date-popup.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-change-publish-date-popup.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old certification status page showing different publish options.":::

The publishing hold options are now directly available on the application overview page when the product is in certification phase and the developer can easily modify it as per their need. They will be able to modify the publishing hold options as long as the product has not started the publishing step.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-publishing-hold-options.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-publishing-hold-options.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing different publish options.":::

## 6.	Celebratory banner when product is live or updated

Once the product is live or it has been updated, the following celebratory banner will be shown to the developer.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-congrats-banner.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-congrats-banner.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing congrats banner after app is successfully published.":::

## 7.	Start update CTA is now available in Product release section

To start a update submission for your app, click on 'Start update'. This will create an update submission. Update the details you want for your app and then submit it for certification.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-start-update.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-start-update.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing how to create an update submission for your app.":::

## 8.	Check product details which are live in Store directly from the application overview page

If the developer wants to check the product details which are currently live on the Store, they can simply go to ‘Store presence’ section and click on 'View product details'.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-store-presence.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-store-presence.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing Store presence section for viewing app details which are currently live on the Store.":::

## 9.	Make product unavailable/available options have been moved to the Store presence card

Previously, Make product unavailable/available options were accessible from the top right corner of the application overview page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-make-product-unavailable.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-make-product-unavailable.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix overview page showing how to make product unavailable in Store":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-make-product-available.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-make-product-available.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix overview page showing how to make product available in Store":::

Now, these options have been moved to Store presence card. Just toggle the switch to make product unavailable or available.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-make-product-unavailable.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-make-product-unavailable.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing how to make product unavailable in Store":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-make-product-available.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-make-product-available.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing how to make product available in Store":::

## 10.	Product identity details can also be accessed from the application overview page

Apart from accessing the product identity details from the Product identity page on the left focus navigation, the developer can also access the details from a dedicated Product identity card on application overview page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-product-identity.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-product-identity.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing product identity section":::

Commit message:

Content updates for new MSIX overview page (#4333)
* Content updates for new MSIX overview page

* Fix image relative path

* More content fixes

hub/apps/publish/whats-new-msix-app-overview-page.md, after:

---
description: Explore the new changes on the MSIX app overview page.
title: Whats new - MSIX app overview page
ms.date: 03/06/2024
ms.topic: article
keywords: windows 10, uwp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
# What's new - MSIX app overview page

The MSIX application overview page has received some updates to simplify the navigation and enhance the user experience. The following are some of the key changes:

## 1.	Submission sections can be directly accessed from the application overview page

Previously, the developer had to go to the submission overview page to see the status of each of the submission sections of their product.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-submission-overview.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-submission-overview.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix submission overview page.":::

Now, the submission sections and their respective status are directly accessible and visible from the application overview page. The old submission overview page is no longer available. The “Submit for certification” button has now been kept at the Product release section which comprises of Product submission.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-submission-sections.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-submission-sections.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission sections.":::

## 2.	Position of delete submission and delete product options has been changed

In previous experience, the developer could delete a draft submission from the action column in the submission list. The option to delete a product was seen on the top right corner on the app overview page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-delete-submission.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-delete-submission.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix app overview page showing delete submission scenario.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-delete-product.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-delete-product.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix app overview page showing delete product scenario.":::

In the new experience, a developer can delete the draft submission from **Product submission** card (or product update card in case of an update submission). The ‘Delete product’ option can be found adjacent to the product name on the top of the page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-msix-delete-submission.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-msix-delete-submission.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix app overview page showing delete submission scenario.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-delete-product.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-delete-product.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix app overview page showing delete product scenario.":::

> [!NOTE] 
> The ‘Delete product’ option will be applicable only for the first draft submission. After the product is live, developer cannot delete the product. 

## 3.	App status is now shown on the application overview page

The application status (eg: In draft, In certification, In Microsoft Store, Update in draft etc.) is now shown on the top of the application overview page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-draft-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-draft-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission in draft.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-certification-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-certification-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission in certification.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-in-store-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-in-store-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission in Microsoft Store.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-unavailable-in-store-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-unavailable-in-store-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing submission unavailable in Store.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-update-in-draft-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-update-in-draft-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing update submission in draft.":::

## 4.	Certification status, Cancel certification, and Certification report are now accessible from the application overview page

Previously, the developer had to click on 'view progress' to see the exact step in certification of their product. Similarly, to cancel certification they had to click on ‘view progress’ and then from certification status page, they could cancel certification for their product.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-certification-step-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-certification-step-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix overview page showing certification status for the submission.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-cancel-certification.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-cancel-certification.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old certification status page showing cancel certification option.":::

Now, the certification status and cancel certification option are directly available on the application overview page. If the product has failed certification, the certification report can be accessed through “View report” CTA.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-cancel-certification.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-cancel-certification.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing cancel certification option.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-certification-failed.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-certification-failed.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing certification failure scenario.":::

## 5.	Publishing hold options are now accessible directly from the application overview page

Previously, if the developer had to edit the publishing hold options when the product was in certification phase, they had to go to certification status page to modify the hold option.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-certification-step-status.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-certification-step-status.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix overview page showing certification status for the submission.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-change-publish-date.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-change-publish-date.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old certification status page showing how to change publish date.":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-change-publish-date-popup.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-change-publish-date-popup.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old certification status page showing different publish options.":::

The publishing hold options are now directly available on the application overview page when the product is in certification phase and the developer can easily modify it as per their need. They will be able to modify the publishing hold options as long as the product has not started the publishing step.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-publishing-hold-options.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-publishing-hold-options.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing different publish options.":::

## 6.	Celebratory banner when product is live or updated

Once the product is live or it has been updated, the following celebratory banner will be shown to the developer.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-congrats-banner.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-congrats-banner.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing congrats banner after app is successfully published.":::

## 7.	Start update CTA is now available in Product release section

To start a update submission for your app, click on 'Start update'. This will create an update submission. Update the details you want for your app and then submit it for certification.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-start-update.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-start-update.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing how to create an update submission for your app.":::

## 8.	Check product details which are live in Store directly from the application overview page

If the developer wants to check the product details which are currently live on the Store, they can simply go to ‘Store presence’ section and click on 'View product details'.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-store-presence.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-store-presence.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing Store presence section for viewing app details which are currently live on the Store.":::

## 9.	Make product unavailable/available options have been moved to the Store presence card

Previously, Make product unavailable/available options were accessible from the top right corner of the application overview page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-make-product-unavailable.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-make-product-unavailable.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix overview page showing how to make product unavailable in Store":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-make-product-available.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/old-overview-make-product-available.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the old msix overview page showing how to make product available in Store":::

Now, these options have been moved to Store presence card. Just toggle the switch to make product unavailable or available.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-make-product-unavailable.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-make-product-unavailable.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing how to make product unavailable in Store":::

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-make-product-available.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-make-product-available.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing how to make product available in Store":::

## 10.	Product identity details can also be accessed from the application overview page

Apart from accessing the product identity details from the Product identity page on the left focus navigation, the developer can also access the details from a dedicated Product identity card on application overview page.

:::image type="content" source="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-product-identity.png" lightbox="../../includes/store/msix/images/new-overview-product-identity.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the new msix overview page showing product identity section":::
