---
description: If you encounter errors after submitting your app add-on to the Store, you must resolve them in order to continue the certification process.
title: Resolve submission errors for add-on
ms.date: 10/30/2022
ms.topic: article
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Resolve submission errors for add-on

If you encounter errors after submitting your app to the Store, you must resolve them in order to continue the [certification process](./app-certification-process.md). The error message will indicate what the problem is and what you might need to do in order to fix the issue. Here is some additional info that can help you resolve these errors.

## UWP apps

If you are submitting a UWP app, you may see an error during preprocessing if your package file is not a .msixupload or .appxupload file generated by Visual Studio for the Store. Be sure that you follow the steps in [Package a UWP app with Visual Studio](/windows/msix/package/packaging-uwp-apps) when creating your app's package file, and only upload the .msixupload or .appxupload file on the [Packages](../msix/upload-app-packages.md) page of the submission, not a .msix/appx or .msixbundle/appxbundle.

If a compilation error is displayed, make sure that you are able to build your application in Release mode successfully. For more info, see [.NET Native Internal Compiler Errors](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/Documentation/ilcRepro.md).

## Desktop application

If you plan to submit a package that contains both Win32 and UWP binaries, make sure that you create that package by using the Windows Packaging Project that is available in Visual Studio 2017 Update 4 and later versions. If you create the package by using a UWP project template, you might not be able to submit that package to the Store or sideload it onto other PCs. Even if the package publishes successfully, it might behave in unexpected ways on the user's PC. For more info, see [Package an app by using Visual Studio (Desktop Bridge)](/windows/msix/desktop/desktop-to-uwp-packaging-dot-net).

## Name/identity errors

If you see an error that says **The name found in the package is not one of your reserved app names. Please reserve the app name and/or update your package with the correct app name for this language**, it may be because you’ve entered an incorrect name in your package. This error can also occur if you are using an app name that you haven’t reserved in Partner Center. You can usually resolve this error by following these steps:

- Go to the [Product identity](../../view-app-identity-details.md) page for your app (under **Product management**) to confirm whether your app has an assigned Identity. If it doesn’t, you’ll see an option to create one. You’ll need to reserve a name for your app in order to create the Identity. Make sure this is the name you’ve used in your package.
- If your app already has an identity, you might still need to reserve the name that you want to use in your package. Under **Product management**, click [Manage app name reservations](../../partner-center/manage-app-name-reservations.md). Enter the name you’d like to use, and click **Reserve app name**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If the name you want to use is not available, another app might have already reserved that name. If your app is already published under that name, or if you think you have the right to use it, [contact support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2224235).

## Avoid common certification failures

Review this list to help avoid issues that frequently prevent apps from getting certified, or that might be identified during a spot check after the app is published.

> [!NOTE]
> Be sure to review the [Microsoft Store Policies](../../store-policies.md) to ensure your app meets all of the requirements listed there.

- Submit your app only when it's finished. You're welcome to use your app's description to mention upcoming features, but make sure that your app doesn't contain incomplete sections, links to web pages that are under construction, or anything else that would give a customer the impression that your app is incomplete.

- [Test your app with the Windows App Certification Kit](/windows/uwp/debug-test-perf/windows-app-certification-kit) before you submit your app.

- Test your app on several different configurations to ensure that it's as stable as possible.

- Ensure that your app doesn't crash without network connectivity. Even if a connection is required to actually use your app, it needs to perform appropriately when no connection is present.

- [Provide any necessary info](./manage-submission-options.md#notes-for-certification) required to use your app, such as the user name and password for a test account if your app requires users to log in to a service, or any steps required to access hidden or locked features.

- Include a [privacy policy URL](./support-info.md#privacy-policy-url) if your app requires one; for example, if your app accesses any kind of personal information in any way or is otherwise required by law. To help determine if your app requires a privacy policy, review the [App Developer Agreement](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=528905) and the [Microsoft Store Policies](../../store-policies.md).

- Make sure that your app's description clearly represents what your app does. For help, see our guidance on [writing a great app description](./write-great-app-description.md).

- Provide complete and accurate responses to all of the questions in the [Age ratings](../msix/age-ratings.md) section.

- Don't [declare your app as accessible](./product-declarations.md#this-app-has-been-tested-to-meet-accessibility-guidelines) unless you have specifically engineered and tested it for accessibility scenarios.

- If your app uses the commerce APIs from the [**Windows.ApplicationModel.Store**](/uwp/api/Windows.ApplicationModel.Store) namespace, make sure to test the app and verify that it handles typical exceptions. Also, make sure that your app uses the [**CurrentApp**](/uwp/api/Windows.ApplicationModel.Store.CurrentApp) class and not the [**CurrentAppSimulator**](/uwp/api/Windows.ApplicationModel.Store.CurrentAppSimulator) class, which is for testing purposes only. (Note that if your app targets Windows 10, version 1607 or later, we recommend that you use members of the [Windows.Services.Store](/uwp/api/windows.services.store) namespace instead of the Windows.ApplicationModel.Store namespace.)
