hub/apps/develop/settings/settings-common.md, before:

---
title: Reference for common Windows settings
description: This page lists the settings that are supported on Windows 10 and Windows 11, but were introduced in earlier Windows versions.
ms.date: 02/27/2024
ms.topic: article
keywords: windows 10, windows 11, settings
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Reference for common Windows settings

**TBD - Still working on the language to frame these settings**
This page lists the settings that are supported on Windows 10 and Windows 11, but were introduced in earlier Windows versions. Link to [Settings back up and restore overview](index.md). Link to [Cloud Data Store Settings Reader Tool (readsettingdata.exe)](readsettingsdata-exe.md). Link to [Reference for Windows 11 settings](settings-windows-11.md). Link to [Reference for Windows 11 settings - TBD]().

## File Explorer Classic

Settings related to the classic Windows File Explorer.

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.ShellStateSetting Structure

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| bmigratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether the shell state is migrated from SSF. |
| bshowAllObjects | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show all objects. |
| bshowExtensions | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show all extensions. |
| bshowCompColor | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show all colors. |
| bdoubleClickInWebView | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show all objects. |
| bdontPrettyPath | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show super hidden. |
| showInfoTip | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show info tip. |
| noConfirmRecycle | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show super hidden. |
| showSuperHidden | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show super hidden. |
| sepProcess | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show the separation process. |
| iconsOnly | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show icons only. |
| showTypeOverlay | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show type overlay. |


### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.CabinetStateSettings Structure

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether the cabinet state is migrated from SSF. |
| fullPathTitle | bool | Indicates whether the cabinet state setting should show full path title. |
| saveLocalView | bool | Indicates whether the cabinet state setting should save local view. |
| newWindowMode | bool | Indicates whether the cabinet state setting should open in new window mode. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.AdvancedSettings Structure

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings are migrated from SSF. |
| alwaysShowMenus | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should always show menu. |
| folderContentsInfoTip | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should show folder contents info tip. |
| hideDrivesWithNoMedia | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should hide the drives with no media present. |
| navPaneExpandToCurrentFolder | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should expand the navigation pane to current folder. |
| navPaneShowAllFolders | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should expand the navigation panel to show all folders. |
| navPaneShowFavorites | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should expand the navigation panel to show all favorites. |
| persistBrowsers | bool | Indicates advanced settings for file explorer should persist browsers. | 
| sharingWizardOn | bool | Indicates whether sharing wizard is on for advanced settings. |
| showDriveLetters | bool | Indicates whether drives letters are shown for advanced settings. |
| showPreviewHandlers | bool | Indicates whether to show preview handlers. |
| typeAhead | bool | Indicates whether to show type ahead. |
| showStatusBar | bool | Indicates whether the file explorer should show status bar. |
| showLibraries | bool | Indicates whether the file explorer advanced settings should show libraries. |
| showCompColor | bool | Indicates whether to show comp color for advanced settings. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.ExplorerSettings Structure

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether Explorer settings are migrated from SSF. |
| underlineIconsAlways | bool | Indicates whether Explorer settings should always underline icons. |
| underlineIconsNever | bool | Indicates whether Explorer settings should never underline icons. |
| underlineIconsAsBrowser | bool | Indicates whether Explorer settings should underline icons as browser. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.SearchSettings Structure

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether search settings are migrated from SSF. |
| searchOnly | bool | Indicates whether search setting show search only. |
| wholeFileSystem | bool | Indicates whether search setting show the whole file system. |
| systemFolders | bool | Indicates whether search setting show system folders. |
| archivedFiles | bool | Indicates whether search setting show archived files. |

### Type: Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.RegistrySettings Structure

These are blobs that are in the registry. There are three things that use registry stream settings:

| Setting | Type |
|---------|------|
| RibbonQat | A single blob |
| Details Preview Settings | Two DWORDs (dwPreviewPaneSettings and dwReadingPaneSettings) |
| Navigation Pane Visibility | A bool |

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether registry settings are migrated from SSF. |
| ribbonQat | blob | A single blob. |
| detailsPreviewPaneSettings | unit32 | Details about preview pane settings. |
| readingPaneSettings | unit32 | Indicates reading pane settings. |
| navigationPaneVisible | bool | Indicates whether navigation pane is visible or not. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.FolderOptionGeneralSettings Structure

These are settings found in File Explorer->Folder options(...)->General tab

•	File explorer can be opened to either Home or This PC 
•	File explorer can be opened to One Drive folder as well if user has signed in to One Drive (This option is available only if user has signed in)

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| defaultOpenLocation | unit8 | Indicates whether file explorer can be opened to either home or this PC. Default is home (0). |
| browseFoldersInNewWindow | bool | Indicates whether to browse folder in new window. |
| useDoubleClickToOpen | bool | Indicates whether to use double click to open. |
| showRecentlyUsedFiles | bool | Indicates whether to show recently used files. |
| showFrequentlyUsedFolders | bool | Indicates whether to show frequently used folders. |
| showFilesFromOffice | bool | Indicates whether to show files from MS office. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.FolderOptionsAdvancedSettings Structure

These are settings found in File Explorer->Folder options(...)->View tab->Advanced settings

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| alwaysShowIconsNeverThumbnails | bool | This is used to show icons only. |
| compactView | bool | Decrease space between items. |
| displayFileIconOnThumbnails | bool | Indicates whether to display file icon on thumbnails. |
| displayFileSizeInfoInFolderTips | bool | Indicates whether to display file size information in folder tips. |
| displayFullFilePath | bool | Show folder contents info tip. |
| showSysHiddenFiles | bool | Show/hide hidden files and folders. |
| hideEmptyDrives | bool | Hide drives with no media. |
| showExtensions | bool | Show/hide extensions of known file types. |
| hideFolderMergeConflicts | bool | Indicates whether to show/hide folder merge conflicts. |
| showSuperHiddenOSProtectedFiles | bool | Show/hide OS protected files. |
| showDriveLetters | bool | Show/hide drive letters. |
| colorEncryptedCompressedFiles | bool | Show encrypted and compressed files in color. |
| showPopupDescription | bool | Indicates pop up descriptions. |
| showSyncProviderNotification | bool | Indicates notification provider sync notification. |
| useCheckboxesForSelection | bool | Used to show check boxes for selection. |
| useSharingWizard | bool | Sharing wizard on/off. |
| navPaneAlwaysShowAvailablityStatus | bool | Show Navigation pane all cloud states. |
| navPaneShowLibraries | bool | Show navigation pane libraries. |
| navPaneShowNetwork | bool | Show pane navigation network. |
| navPaneShowThisPC | bool | This is used to show navigation pane to show current folder. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.RecycleBinSettings Structure

These are settings found in Recycle bin-> right click Properties

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| displayDeleteConfirmationDialog | bool | Indicates whether to show delete confirmation dialog

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.DesktopIconSettings Structure

These are settings related to desktop icons.

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| viewAutoArrangeIcons | bool | Indicates values for AutoArrangement of icons. |
| viewAlignIconsToGrid | bool | Indicates values for snapping to grid. |
| viewShowDesktopIcons | bool | Indicates values to view desktop icons. |
| sortColPropertyKeyFmtid | wstring	L"B725F130-47EF-101A-A5F1-02608C9EEBAC". |
| sortColPropertyKeyPid | Unit32 | 10. |
| sortColDirection | bool | 1=Ascending -1=Descending Default value is Ascending (true). |

Commit message:

Checking in typing and windows update settings

hub/apps/develop/settings/settings-common.md, after:

---
title: Reference for common Windows settings
description: This page lists the settings that are supported by both Windows 10 and Windows 11.
ms.date: 02/27/2024
ms.topic: article
keywords: windows 10, windows 11, settings
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Reference for common Windows settings

**TBD - Still working on the language to frame these settings**
This page lists the settings that are supported by both Windows 10 and Windows 11. Link to [Settings back up and restore overview](index.md). Link to [Cloud Data Store Settings Reader Tool (readsettingdata.exe)](readsettingsdata-exe.md). Link to [Reference for Windows 11 settings](settings-windows-11.md). Link to [Reference for Windows 11 settings - TBD]().

## File Explorer Classic

Settings related to the classic Windows File Explorer.

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.ShellStateSetting Structure

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| bmigratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether the shell state is migrated from SSF. |
| bshowAllObjects | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show all objects. |
| bshowExtensions | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show all extensions. |
| bshowCompColor | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show all colors. |
| bdoubleClickInWebView | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show all objects. |
| bdontPrettyPath | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show super hidden. |
| showInfoTip | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show info tip. |
| noConfirmRecycle | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show super hidden. |
| showSuperHidden | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show super hidden. |
| sepProcess | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show the separation process. |
| iconsOnly | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show icons only. |
| showTypeOverlay | bool | Indicates whether Shell state should show type overlay. |


### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.CabinetStateSettings Structure

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether the cabinet state is migrated from SSF. |
| fullPathTitle | bool | Indicates whether the cabinet state setting should show full path title. |
| saveLocalView | bool | Indicates whether the cabinet state setting should save local view. |
| newWindowMode | bool | Indicates whether the cabinet state setting should open in new window mode. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.AdvancedSettings Structure

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings are migrated from SSF. |
| alwaysShowMenus | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should always show menu. |
| folderContentsInfoTip | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should show folder contents info tip. |
| hideDrivesWithNoMedia | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should hide the drives with no media present. |
| navPaneExpandToCurrentFolder | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should expand the navigation pane to current folder. |
| navPaneShowAllFolders | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should expand the navigation panel to show all folders. |
| navPaneShowFavorites | bool | Indicates whether advanced settings should expand the navigation panel to show all favorites. |
| persistBrowsers | bool | Indicates advanced settings for file explorer should persist browsers. | 
| sharingWizardOn | bool | Indicates whether sharing wizard is on for advanced settings. |
| showDriveLetters | bool | Indicates whether drives letters are shown for advanced settings. |
| showPreviewHandlers | bool | Indicates whether to show preview handlers. |
| typeAhead | bool | Indicates whether to show type ahead. |
| showStatusBar | bool | Indicates whether the file explorer should show status bar. |
| showLibraries | bool | Indicates whether the file explorer advanced settings should show libraries. |
| showCompColor | bool | Indicates whether to show comp color for advanced settings. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.ExplorerSettings Structure

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether Explorer settings are migrated from SSF. |
| underlineIconsAlways | bool | Indicates whether Explorer settings should always underline icons. |
| underlineIconsNever | bool | Indicates whether Explorer settings should never underline icons. |
| underlineIconsAsBrowser | bool | Indicates whether Explorer settings should underline icons as browser. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.SearchSettings Structure

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether search settings are migrated from SSF. |
| searchOnly | bool | Indicates whether search setting show search only. |
| wholeFileSystem | bool | Indicates whether search setting show the whole file system. |
| systemFolders | bool | Indicates whether search setting show system folders. |
| archivedFiles | bool | Indicates whether search setting show archived files. |

### Type: Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.RegistrySettings Structure

These are blobs that are in the registry. There are three things that use registry stream settings:

| Setting | Type |
|---------|------|
| RibbonQat | A single blob |
| Details Preview Settings | Two DWORDs (dwPreviewPaneSettings and dwReadingPaneSettings) |
| Navigation Pane Visibility | A bool |

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| migratedFromSSF | bool | Indicates whether registry settings are migrated from SSF. |
| ribbonQat | blob | A single blob. |
| detailsPreviewPaneSettings | unit32 | Details about preview pane settings. |
| readingPaneSettings | unit32 | Indicates reading pane settings. |
| navigationPaneVisible | bool | Indicates whether navigation pane is visible or not. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.FolderOptionGeneralSettings Structure

These are settings found in File Explorer->Folder options(...)->General tab

•	File explorer can be opened to either Home or This PC 
•	File explorer can be opened to One Drive folder as well if user has signed in to One Drive (This option is available only if user has signed in)

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| defaultOpenLocation | unit8 | Indicates whether file explorer can be opened to either home or this PC. Default is home (0). |
| browseFoldersInNewWindow | bool | Indicates whether to browse folder in new window. |
| useDoubleClickToOpen | bool | Indicates whether to use double click to open. |
| showRecentlyUsedFiles | bool | Indicates whether to show recently used files. |
| showFrequentlyUsedFolders | bool | Indicates whether to show frequently used folders. |
| showFilesFromOffice | bool | Indicates whether to show files from MS office. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.FolderOptionsAdvancedSettings Structure

These are settings found in File Explorer->Folder options(...)->View tab->Advanced settings

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| alwaysShowIconsNeverThumbnails | bool | This is used to show icons only. |
| compactView | bool | Decrease space between items. |
| displayFileIconOnThumbnails | bool | Indicates whether to display file icon on thumbnails. |
| displayFileSizeInfoInFolderTips | bool | Indicates whether to display file size information in folder tips. |
| displayFullFilePath | bool | Show folder contents info tip. |
| showSysHiddenFiles | bool | Show/hide hidden files and folders. |
| hideEmptyDrives | bool | Hide drives with no media. |
| showExtensions | bool | Show/hide extensions of known file types. |
| hideFolderMergeConflicts | bool | Indicates whether to show/hide folder merge conflicts. |
| showSuperHiddenOSProtectedFiles | bool | Show/hide OS protected files. |
| showDriveLetters | bool | Show/hide drive letters. |
| colorEncryptedCompressedFiles | bool | Show encrypted and compressed files in color. |
| showPopupDescription | bool | Indicates pop up descriptions. |
| showSyncProviderNotification | bool | Indicates notification provider sync notification. |
| useCheckboxesForSelection | bool | Used to show check boxes for selection. |
| useSharingWizard | bool | Sharing wizard on/off. |
| navPaneAlwaysShowAvailablityStatus | bool | Show Navigation pane all cloud states. |
| navPaneShowLibraries | bool | Show navigation pane libraries. |
| navPaneShowNetwork | bool | Show pane navigation network. |
| navPaneShowThisPC | bool | This is used to show navigation pane to show current folder. |

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.RecycleBinSettings Structure

These are settings found in Recycle bin-> right click Properties

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| displayDeleteConfirmationDialog | bool | Indicates whether to show delete confirmation dialog

### Type: Windows.Data.FileExplorerClassic.DesktopIconSettings Structure

These are settings related to desktop icons.

### Properties

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| viewAutoArrangeIcons | bool | Indicates values for AutoArrangement of icons. |
| viewAlignIconsToGrid | bool | Indicates values for snapping to grid. |
| viewShowDesktopIcons | bool | Indicates values to view desktop icons. |
| sortColPropertyKeyFmtid | wstring	L"B725F130-47EF-101A-A5F1-02608C9EEBAC". |
| sortColPropertyKeyPid | Unit32 | 10. |
| sortColDirection | bool | 1=Ascending -1=Descending Default value is Ascending (true). |



## Windows Update

**TBD - I am placing this setting in the "common" page for now because the Word doc explicitly calls out that the setting is available and identical on Windows 10 and Windows 11. Catorization of settings is still TBD**

This setting is single instance.

### Registry values under HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\GameDVR

**TBD - ALL DESCRIPTIONS TENTATIVE**

| Registry value | Type | Data | Description |
|---------------|------|-------|-------------|
| IsContinuousInnovationOptedIn | REG_DWORD | 0/1 | Enables devices to get the latest updates as soon as they’re released. |
| AllowMUUpdateService | REG_DWORD | 0/1 | Allows users to get other Microsoft products alongside with Windows Updates. |
| IsExpedited | REG_DWORD | 0/1 | User selects this to invoke device restart 15 min after all updates finished installing. |
| RestartNotificationsAllowed2 | REG_DWORD | 0/1 | Users decides if they want to be notified about the updates pending restart. |
