hub/apps/get-started/index.md, before:

---
description: An overview of Windows development options - Writing apps for Windows and how to select a development technology
title: An overview of app development option
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 9/26/2023
keywords: windows, desktop development
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# An overview of Windows development options

This article contains the information you need to get started building apps for the Windows desktop environment.

![Developer at desk](./images/developer-at-desk.jpg)

Windows offers a wide range of options for building apps, including [C++](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/), [.NET](/dotnet/), and other emerging technologies such as [open source tools on WSL](/windows/wsl/) and [Rust](../../dev-environment/rust/index.yml). With so many choices, it can be difficult to know where to begin.


## Languages and frameworks

Many apps for Windows are written using [UWP](/windows/uwp), [WPF](/dotnet/desktop/wpf/get-started/create-app-visual-studio?view=netdesktop-7.0) or [Windows Forms](/dotnet/desktop/winforms/getting-started-with-windows-forms?view=netframeworkdesktop-4.8), and they all remain viable tools today.

Looking to the future, if your app will only run on Windows you might want to investigate the [Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/index.md) and [WinUI 3](../winui/winui3/index.md). If you need your app to be cross-platform, consider [.NET MAUI](/dotnet/maui/what-is-maui), a [Progressive Web App (PWA)](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/), or [React Native for Windows](../../dev-environment/javascript/react-native-for-windows.md). There are many other choices available ([here's a list of popular options](../../dev-environment/index.md)), but the above are some good starting points.

## Windows platforms

For more information about the app types you can choose from, see the following tabs.

### [WinAppSDK and WinUI](#tab/winappsdk-winui)

The Windows UI Library (WinUI) 3 is the latest user interface (UI) framework for Windows desktop apps, including managed apps that use C# and .NET, and native apps that use C++ with the Win32 API. It is still under very active development, so while it might not be able to meet all your needs today it's maturing with [every release](/windows/apps/windows-app-sdk/stable-channel).

By incorporating the [Fluent Design System](https://www.microsoft.com/design/fluent/#/) into all experiences, controls, and styles, WinUI provides consistent, intuitive, and accessible experiences using the latest UI patterns. WinUI 3 is available as part of the **[Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/index.md)**. The Windows App SDK provides a unified set of APIs and tools that can be used in a consistent way by any C++ Win32 or C# .NET app on a broad set of target Windows OS versions.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Install tools for the Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/set-up-your-development-environment.md)

If you have already installed the required developer tools, you are ready to [Create your first WinUI 3 project](../winui/winui3/create-your-first-winui3-app.md).

### [Win32](#tab/cpp-win32)

Win32 desktop apps (also sometimes called *classic desktop apps*) are the original app type for native Windows applications that require direct access to Windows and hardware. This makes this the app type of choice for applications that need the highest level of performance and direct access to system hardware.

Using the Win32 API with C++ makes it possible to achieve the highest levels of performance and efficiency by taking more control of the target platform with unmanaged code than is possible on a managed runtime environment like WinRT and .NET. However, exercising such a level of control over your application's execution requires greater care and attention to get right, and trades development productivity for runtime performance.

Here are a few highlights of what the Win32 API and C++ offers to enable you to build high-performance applications.

- Hardware-level optimizations, including tight control over resource allocation, object lifetimes, data layout, alignment, byte packing, and more.
- Access to performance-oriented instruction sets like SSE and AVX through intrinsic functions.
- Efficient, type-safe generic programming by using templates.
- Efficient and safe containers and algorithms.
- DirectX, in particular Direct3D and DirectCompute (note that UWP also offers DirectX interop).
- Use [C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) to create modern desktop Win32 apps with first-class access to Windows Runtime (WinRT) APIs.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with Win32](/windows/win32/desktop-programming/)

You also have access to modern Windows platform features and APIs provided by the **Windows App SDK**. For more information, see [Modernize your desktop apps](../desktop/modernize/index.md).

### [WPF](#tab/wpf)

WPF is a well-established platform for managed Windows applications with access to .NET or the .NET Framework, and it also uses XAML markup to separate UI from code. This platform is designed for desktop applications that require a sophisticated UI, styles customization, and graphics-intensive scenarios. WPF development skills are similar to WinUI 3 development skills, so migrating from WPF to WinUI 3 is easier than migrating from Windows Forms.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with WPF](/dotnet/framework/wpf/getting-started/)

You also have access to modern Windows platform features and APIs provided by the **Windows App SDK**. For more information, see [Modernize your desktop apps](../desktop/modernize/index.md).

### [Windows Forms](#tab/windows-forms)

Windows Forms is the original platform for managed Windows applications with a lightweight UI model and access to .NET or the .NET Framework. It excels at enabling developers to quickly get started building applications, even for developers new to the platform. This is a forms-based, rapid application development platform with a large built-in collection of visual and non-visual drag-and-drop controls. Windows Forms does not use XAML, so deciding later to rewrite your application to WinUI 3 entails a complete re-write of your UI.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with Windows Forms](/dotnet/framework/winforms/getting-started-with-windows-forms)

You also have access to modern Windows platform features and APIs provided by the **Windows App SDK**. For more information, see [Modernize your desktop apps](../desktop/modernize/index.md).

### [UWP](#tab/uwp)

The Universal Windows Platform (UWP) provides a common type system, APIs, and application model for all devices in the Universal Windows Platform. Not only can you use UWP to create desktop applications for Windows PCs, but UWP is also the only supported platform to write a single native universal app that runs across Xbox, HoloLens, and Surface Hub. UWP apps can be native or managed.

UWP is a highly customizable platform that uses XAML markup to separate UI (presentation) from code (business logic). UWP is suitable for desktop apps that require a sophisticated UI, styles customization, and graphics-intensive scenarios. UWP also has built-in support for the [Fluent Design System](/windows/uwp/design/fluent-design-system/) for the default UX experience and provides access to the [Windows Runtime (WinRT) APIs](/windows/uwp/get-started/universal-application-platform-guide#how-the-universal-windows-platform-relates-to-windows-runtime-apis).

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with UWP](/windows/uwp/get-started/)

You will not have access to the APIs provided by the **Windows App SDK**. To use the Windows App SDK, you will have to migrate your UWP app to WinUI 3. For more information, see [Migrate to the Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/migrate-to-windows-app-sdk/overall-migration-strategy.md).

---

## Cross-platform options

WinUI also serves as the basis for cross-platform technologies that provide great native Windows experiences using a variety of coding languages. .NET MAUI and React Native for Windows harness the power of WinUI on Windows, while also enabling execution on other operating systems. Another cross-platform option, Progressive Web Apps (PWAs), are websites that function like installed, native apps on Windows and other supported platforms, while functioning like regular websites on browsers.

### [.NET MAUI](#tab/net-maui)

.NET Multi-platform App UI (MAUI) is an open-source, cross-platform framework for building Android, iOS, macOS, and Windows applications that leverage the native UI and services of each platform from a single .NET code base. Because .NET MAUI favors platform native experiences, it uses WinUI 3 and the Windows App SDK so apps get the latest user experience on Windows. This gives your apps access to everything you get with WinUI 3 plus the ability to reach to other platforms.

.NET MAUI for Windows is a great choice if:

- You want to share as much .NET code as possible across mobile and desktop applications.
- You want to ship your application beyond Windows to other desktop and mobile targets with native platform experiences.
- You want to use C# and/or XAML for building cross-platform apps.
- You're using Blazor for web development and wish to include all or part of that in a mobile or desktop application.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with .NET MAUI](/dotnet/maui/get-started/installation)

For more information about .NET MAUI, see the following links:

- [.NET MAUI documentation](/dotnet/maui/)
- [.NET MAUI on GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/maui)
- [.NET MAUI Product Roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/maui/wiki/Roadmap)
- [Build Windows apps with .NET MAUI](../windows-dotnet-maui/index.md)
- [Resources for learning .NET MAUI](/dotnet/maui/get-started/resources/)
- [Video Series - .NET MAUI for Beginners](/shows/dotnet-maui-for-beginners/)
- [Build 2022: Build native apps for any device with .NET and Visual Studio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IbwgHJPoE-M)

### [Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)](#tab/pwa)

[Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/) provide access to open web technologies to provide cross-platform interoperability. PWAs provide your users with an app-like experience that's customized for their devices. PWAs are websites that are [progressively enhanced](https://alistapart.com/article/understandingprogressiveenhancement) to function like installed, native apps on supporting platforms (including Windows), while functioning like regular websites on other browsers.

When installed on Windows, PWAs are just like other apps. For example:

- A PWA can be added to the Start menu.
- A PWA can be pinned to the Taskbar.
- PWAs can handle files.
- PWAs can run when the user signs in.
- PWAs can be submitted to the Microsoft Store where millions of Windows users can discover and easily install them alongside other Windows apps.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with PWAs](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/)

For more information about building PWAs, see the following links:

- [Overview of PWAs](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/)
- [Publish a PWA to the Microsoft Store](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/microsoft-store)
- [Re-engage users with badges, notifications, and push messages](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/notifications-badges)
- [Build PWA-driven widgets](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/widgets)
- [Progressive Web App demos](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/demo-pwas)
- [PWABuilder - Helping developers build and publish PWAs](https://www.pwabuilder.com/)

### [React Native for Windows](#tab/rnw)

[React Native](https://reactnative.dev) is a development platform which allows building cross-platform apps.
React Native for Windows brings React Native support to the Windows 10 and Windows 11 SDKs, enabling you to use JavaScript to build native Windows apps for all devices supported by Windows 10 and Windows 11. This includes PCs, tablets, 2-in-1s, Xbox, Mixed reality devices, etc.

With React Native for Windows, you write most or all of your app code in JavaScript - or TypeScript - and the framework produces a native UWP XAML application. If your app needs to call a platform API, you can usually do so through one of the many [community modules](https://reactnative.directory), or if a module does not yet exist, you can easily [write a native module to expose it](https://aka.ms/RNW-NativeModules).

Here are some reasons to choose React Native for Windows:

- You want to share code across platforms as much as possible, or you have web properties that you want to share code with.
- Improved developer productivity and inner loop, thanks to fast refresh.
- Your app's fundamentals (performance, accessibility, internationalization) are as good as a native UWP app.
- You have experience with and a preference for JavaScript or TypeScript
- You would like to leverage JavaScript-only libraries on [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/), and many native libraries too.
- Your app will use the native controls, visual appearance, animations and colors, and therefore will feel integrated into the design language used in Windows. In addition, React Native for Windows apps do not have to compromise on the set of APIs they can call, as the framework allows you to call platform APIs as well as write your own view managers and native modules.
- Large and growing community momentum, with lots of [community modules](https://reactnative.directory).

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with React Native for Windows](https://aka.ms/ReactNativeGuideWindows)

For more information about React Native for Windows, see the following links:

- [React Native for Windows repo on GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-windows)
- [Native modules in React Native for Windows](https://aka.ms/RNW-NativeModules)
- [API reference](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/docs/Native-API-Reference)
- [Community modules directory](https://reactnative.directory)
- [More resources](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/resources)

---

Commit message:

Add links to the Pros and Cons summary topic (#3824)
* Add links to the Pros and Cons summary topic

* Add links to the Pros and Cons summary topic

---------

Co-authored-by: John Kennedy <john@Johns-Mac-Pro.local>

hub/apps/get-started/index.md, after:

---
description: An overview of Windows development options - Writing apps for Windows and how to select a development technology
title: An overview of app development option
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 10/13/2023
keywords: windows, desktop development
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# An overview of Windows development options

This article contains the information you need to get started building apps for the Windows desktop environment.

![Developer at desk](./images/developer-at-desk.jpg)

Windows offers a wide range of options for building apps, including [C++](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/), [.NET](/dotnet/), and other emerging technologies such as [open source tools on WSL](/windows/wsl/) and [Rust](../../dev-environment/rust/index.yml). With so many choices, it can be difficult to know where to begin.


## Languages and frameworks

Many apps for Windows are written using [UWP](/windows/uwp), [WPF](/dotnet/desktop/wpf/get-started/create-app-visual-studio?view=netdesktop-7.0) or [Windows Forms](/dotnet/desktop/winforms/getting-started-with-windows-forms?view=netframeworkdesktop-4.8), and they all remain viable tools today. For a summary of which to use, see [Windows app development: options and features](dev-options.md).

Looking to the future, if your app will only run on Windows you might want to investigate the [Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/index.md) and [WinUI 3](../winui/winui3/index.md). If you need your app to be cross-platform, consider [.NET MAUI](/dotnet/maui/what-is-maui), a [Progressive Web App (PWA)](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/), or [React Native for Windows](../../dev-environment/javascript/react-native-for-windows.md). There are many other choices available ([here's a list of popular options](../../dev-environment/index.md)), but the above are some good starting points.

## Windows platforms

For more information about the app types you can choose from, see the following tabs.

### [WinAppSDK and WinUI](#tab/winappsdk-winui)

The Windows UI Library (WinUI) 3 is the latest user interface (UI) framework for Windows desktop apps, including managed apps that use C# and .NET, and native apps that use C++ with the Win32 API. It is still under very active development, so while it might not be able to meet all your needs today it's maturing with [every release](/windows/apps/windows-app-sdk/stable-channel).

By incorporating the [Fluent Design System](https://www.microsoft.com/design/fluent/#/) into all experiences, controls, and styles, WinUI provides consistent, intuitive, and accessible experiences using the latest UI patterns. WinUI 3 is available as part of the **[Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/index.md)**. The Windows App SDK provides a unified set of APIs and tools that can be used in a consistent way by any C++ Win32 or C# .NET app on a broad set of target Windows OS versions.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Install tools for the Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/set-up-your-development-environment.md)

If you have already installed the required developer tools, you are ready to [Create your first WinUI 3 project](../winui/winui3/create-your-first-winui3-app.md).

### [Win32](#tab/cpp-win32)

Win32 desktop apps (also sometimes called *classic desktop apps*) are the original app type for native Windows applications that require direct access to Windows and hardware. This makes this the app type of choice for applications that need the highest level of performance and direct access to system hardware.

Using the Win32 API with C++ makes it possible to achieve the highest levels of performance and efficiency by taking more control of the target platform with unmanaged code than is possible on a managed runtime environment like WinRT and .NET. However, exercising such a level of control over your application's execution requires greater care and attention to get right, and trades development productivity for runtime performance.

Here are a few highlights of what the Win32 API and C++ offers to enable you to build high-performance applications.

- Hardware-level optimizations, including tight control over resource allocation, object lifetimes, data layout, alignment, byte packing, and more.
- Access to performance-oriented instruction sets like SSE and AVX through intrinsic functions.
- Efficient, type-safe generic programming by using templates.
- Efficient and safe containers and algorithms.
- DirectX, in particular Direct3D and DirectCompute (note that UWP also offers DirectX interop).
- Use [C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/) to create modern desktop Win32 apps with first-class access to Windows Runtime (WinRT) APIs.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with Win32](/windows/win32/desktop-programming/)

You also have access to modern Windows platform features and APIs provided by the **Windows App SDK**. For more information, see [Modernize your desktop apps](../desktop/modernize/index.md).

### [WPF](#tab/wpf)

WPF is a well-established platform for managed Windows applications with access to .NET or the .NET Framework, and it also uses XAML markup to separate UI from code. This platform is designed for desktop applications that require a sophisticated UI, styles customization, and graphics-intensive scenarios. WPF development skills are similar to WinUI 3 development skills, so migrating from WPF to WinUI 3 is easier than migrating from Windows Forms.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with WPF](/dotnet/framework/wpf/getting-started/)

You also have access to modern Windows platform features and APIs provided by the **Windows App SDK**. For more information, see [Modernize your desktop apps](../desktop/modernize/index.md).

### [Windows Forms](#tab/windows-forms)

Windows Forms is the original platform for managed Windows applications with a lightweight UI model and access to .NET or the .NET Framework. It excels at enabling developers to quickly get started building applications, even for developers new to the platform. This is a forms-based, rapid application development platform with a large built-in collection of visual and non-visual drag-and-drop controls. Windows Forms does not use XAML, so deciding later to rewrite your application to WinUI 3 entails a complete re-write of your UI.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with Windows Forms](/dotnet/framework/winforms/getting-started-with-windows-forms)

You also have access to modern Windows platform features and APIs provided by the **Windows App SDK**. For more information, see [Modernize your desktop apps](../desktop/modernize/index.md).

### [UWP](#tab/uwp)

The Universal Windows Platform (UWP) provides a common type system, APIs, and application model for all devices in the Universal Windows Platform. Not only can you use UWP to create desktop applications for Windows PCs, but UWP is also the only supported platform to write a single native universal app that runs across Xbox, HoloLens, and Surface Hub. UWP apps can be native or managed.

UWP is a highly customizable platform that uses XAML markup to separate UI (presentation) from code (business logic). UWP is suitable for desktop apps that require a sophisticated UI, styles customization, and graphics-intensive scenarios. UWP also has built-in support for the [Fluent Design System](/windows/uwp/design/fluent-design-system/) for the default UX experience and provides access to the [Windows Runtime (WinRT) APIs](/windows/uwp/get-started/universal-application-platform-guide#how-the-universal-windows-platform-relates-to-windows-runtime-apis).

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with UWP](/windows/uwp/get-started/)

You will not have access to the APIs provided by the **Windows App SDK**. To use the Windows App SDK, you will have to migrate your UWP app to WinUI 3. For more information, see [Migrate to the Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/migrate-to-windows-app-sdk/overall-migration-strategy.md).

---

## Cross-platform options

WinUI also serves as the basis for cross-platform technologies that provide great native Windows experiences using a variety of coding languages. .NET MAUI and React Native for Windows harness the power of WinUI on Windows, while also enabling execution on other operating systems. Another cross-platform option, Progressive Web Apps (PWAs), are websites that function like installed, native apps on Windows and other supported platforms, while functioning like regular websites on browsers.

### [.NET MAUI](#tab/net-maui)

.NET Multi-platform App UI (MAUI) is an open-source, cross-platform framework for building Android, iOS, macOS, and Windows applications that leverage the native UI and services of each platform from a single .NET code base. Because .NET MAUI favors platform native experiences, it uses WinUI 3 and the Windows App SDK so apps get the latest user experience on Windows. This gives your apps access to everything you get with WinUI 3 plus the ability to reach to other platforms.

.NET MAUI for Windows is a great choice if:

- You want to share as much .NET code as possible across mobile and desktop applications.
- You want to ship your application beyond Windows to other desktop and mobile targets with native platform experiences.
- You want to use C# and/or XAML for building cross-platform apps.
- You're using Blazor for web development and wish to include all or part of that in a mobile or desktop application.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with .NET MAUI](/dotnet/maui/get-started/installation)

For more information about .NET MAUI, see the following links:

- [.NET MAUI documentation](/dotnet/maui/)
- [.NET MAUI on GitHub](https://github.com/dotnet/maui)
- [.NET MAUI Product Roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/maui/wiki/Roadmap)
- [Build Windows apps with .NET MAUI](../windows-dotnet-maui/index.md)
- [Resources for learning .NET MAUI](/dotnet/maui/get-started/resources/)
- [Video Series - .NET MAUI for Beginners](/shows/dotnet-maui-for-beginners/)
- [Build 2022: Build native apps for any device with .NET and Visual Studio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IbwgHJPoE-M)

### [Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)](#tab/pwa)

[Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/) provide access to open web technologies to provide cross-platform interoperability. PWAs provide your users with an app-like experience that's customized for their devices. PWAs are websites that are [progressively enhanced](https://alistapart.com/article/understandingprogressiveenhancement) to function like installed, native apps on supporting platforms (including Windows), while functioning like regular websites on other browsers.

When installed on Windows, PWAs are just like other apps. For example:

- A PWA can be added to the Start menu.
- A PWA can be pinned to the Taskbar.
- PWAs can handle files.
- PWAs can run when the user signs in.
- PWAs can be submitted to the Microsoft Store where millions of Windows users can discover and easily install them alongside other Windows apps.

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with PWAs](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/)

For more information about building PWAs, see the following links:

- [Overview of PWAs](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/)
- [Publish a PWA to the Microsoft Store](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/microsoft-store)
- [Re-engage users with badges, notifications, and push messages](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/notifications-badges)
- [Build PWA-driven widgets](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/widgets)
- [Progressive Web App demos](/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/demo-pwas)
- [PWABuilder - Helping developers build and publish PWAs](https://www.pwabuilder.com/)

### [React Native for Windows](#tab/rnw)

[React Native](https://reactnative.dev) is a development platform which allows building cross-platform apps.
React Native for Windows brings React Native support to the Windows 10 and Windows 11 SDKs, enabling you to use JavaScript to build native Windows apps for all devices supported by Windows 10 and Windows 11. This includes PCs, tablets, 2-in-1s, Xbox, Mixed reality devices, etc.

With React Native for Windows, you write most or all of your app code in JavaScript - or TypeScript - and the framework produces a native UWP XAML application. If your app needs to call a platform API, you can usually do so through one of the many [community modules](https://reactnative.directory), or if a module does not yet exist, you can easily [write a native module to expose it](https://aka.ms/RNW-NativeModules).

Here are some reasons to choose React Native for Windows:

- You want to share code across platforms as much as possible, or you have web properties that you want to share code with.
- Improved developer productivity and inner loop, thanks to fast refresh.
- Your app's fundamentals (performance, accessibility, internationalization) are as good as a native UWP app.
- You have experience with and a preference for JavaScript or TypeScript
- You would like to leverage JavaScript-only libraries on [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/), and many native libraries too.
- Your app will use the native controls, visual appearance, animations and colors, and therefore will feel integrated into the design language used in Windows. In addition, React Native for Windows apps do not have to compromise on the set of APIs they can call, as the framework allows you to call platform APIs as well as write your own view managers and native modules.
- Large and growing community momentum, with lots of [community modules](https://reactnative.directory).

> [!div class="button"]
> [Get started with React Native for Windows](https://aka.ms/ReactNativeGuideWindows)

For more information about React Native for Windows, see the following links:

- [React Native for Windows repo on GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-windows)
- [Native modules in React Native for Windows](https://aka.ms/RNW-NativeModules)
- [API reference](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/docs/Native-API-Reference)
- [Community modules directory](https://reactnative.directory)
- [More resources](https://microsoft.github.io/react-native-windows/resources)

---
