hub/apps/get-started/start-here.md, before:

---
title: Get started with WinUI
description: List of steps to get started developing Windows apps with WinUI and the Windows App SDK.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/13/2024
keywords: windows, desktop development
ms.author: jken
author: GrantMeStrength
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.collection: windows11
---

# Get started with WinUI

Welcome to developing apps with WinUI. This guide will walk you through the steps you need to get started. It will also point you to resources that will help you learn more about Windows development.

## 1. Install Visual Studio

You'll use [Visual Studio](/visualstudio/ide/), Microsoft's comprehensive integrated development environment (IDE), to create your WinUI app. It's the preferred development tool of many Windows developers and it will help you write, debug, and deploy your apps. The project templates in Visual Studio will quickly get you started with projects for Windows and many other platforms.

> [!TIP]
> Before installing these tools, make sure your development computer meets the [system requirements for Windows app development](../windows-app-sdk/system-requirements.md).

Use this link to download and install the latest Visual Studio. The installer will walk you through the steps, but if you find you need detailed instructions, see [Install Visual Studio](/visualstudio/install/install-visual-studio).

> [!div class="button"]
> [Download Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)

The free Visual Studio Community Edition includes everything you need to create your apps. If you're working with a development team or enterprise, you might need Visual Studio Professional or Visual Studio Enterprise. See [What is Visual Studio?](/visualstudio/get-started/visual-studio-ide) for more info.

### Required workloads and components

While installing Visual Studio, you need to install the workloads and components required for developing with WinUI and the Windows App SDK. After installation, you can open the Visual Studio Installer app and select **Modify** to add workloads and components.

On the **Workloads** tab of the Visual Studio Installer app, select the following workloads and components:

#### [Visual Studio 2022 version 17.10 and later](#tab/vs-2022-17-10)

* For **C#** app development using the Windows App SDK, select **Windows application development**.

:::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/vs-workload-winui.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Visual Studio installer UI with the Windows application development workload selected.":::

* For **C++** app development using the Windows App SDK, select **Windows application development**.
  * Then in the **Installation details** pane, under the **Windows application development** node, select **C++ WinUI app development tools**. (This will also select any additional required components.)

:::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/vs-workload-winui-cpp.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Visual Studio installer UI with the C++ WinUI app development tools selected.":::

#### [Visual Studio 2022 version 17.1 - 17.9](#tab/vs-2022-17-1)

* For **C#** app development using the Windows App SDK, select **.NET Desktop Development**.
  * Then in the **Installation details** pane of the installation dialog box, select **Windows App SDK C# Templates** (near the bottom of the list).
* For **C++** app development using the Windows App SDK, select **Desktop development with C++**
  * Then in the **Installation details** pane of the installation dialog box, select **Windows App SDK C++ Templates** (at the bottom of the list).
  * On the **Individual components** tab of the installation dialog box, in the **SDKs, libraries, and frameworks** section, make sure the latest Windows SDK is selected. It will look like **Windows 11 SDK (10.0.22621.0)**. Type "Windows SDK" into the search box to make it easier to find.

---

## 2. Enable Developer Mode

Windows has a special mode for developers that adjusts security settings in order to let you run the apps you're working on. You'll need to enable Developer Mode before you can build, deploy, and test your app using Visual Studio.

> [!TIP]
> If you don't enable it now, you'll be prompted to enable it when you try to build your app in Visual Studio.

To enable Developer Mode:

* Open Windows Settings and navigate to the **[System > For developers](ms-settings:developers)** page.
* Toggle the Developer Mode switch to **On** and confirm your choice in the confirmation dialog.

For more information about Developer Mode, see [Enable your device for development](/windows/apps/get-started/enable-your-device-for-development).

## 3. Create and launch your first WinUI app

Visual Studio project templates include all the files you need to quickly create your app. In fact, after you create your project from a WinUI app template, you'll already have an app that you can run, and then add your code to.

To create a new project using the WinUI C# Blank App project template:

1. Open Visual Studio and select **Create a new project** from the launch page. (If Visual Studio is already open to the editor, select **File** > **New** > **Project**):
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/start-project.png" alt-text="Create a new project":::

1. Search for `WinUI` and select the `Blank App, Packaged (WinUI 3 in Desktop)` C# project template, then click **Next**:
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/create-project.png" alt-text="Blank, packaged WinUI 3 C# desktop app":::

1. Specify a project name, then click **Create**. You can optionally specify a solution name and directory, or leave the defaults. In this image, the `Hello World` project belongs to a `Hello World` solution, which will live in `C:\Projects\`:
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/configure-project.png" alt-text="Specify project details":::
1. Click the Debug "Start" button to build and run your project:<br/>
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/start-click.png" alt-text="Build and run your project":::<br/>
  Your `Hello World` project will build, be deployed to your local machine, and run in debug mode:<br/>
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/click-me.png" alt-text="Hello World project built and running":::

1. To stop debugging, close the app window, or click the debug "Stop" button in Visual Studio.

## 4. Update to the latest WinUI/Windows App SDK

The Windows App SDK (and WinUI, which is part of it) is distributed as a [NuGet](/nuget/what-is-nuget) package. This means updates can be released out-of-sync with Windows and Visual Studio. As a result, the Visual Studio template you used to create your project might not reference the latest Windows App SDK NuGet package. To ensure you have the latest features and fixes, you should update your NuGet packages every time you create a new project in Visual Studio.

To update the Windows App SDK NuGet package for your project:

* In Visual Studio, with your project loaded, select **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Manage NuGet Packages for Solution...**.
* If an update is available, it will appear on the Updates page. Check the box next to the listed update. (To include prerelease updates, check the "Include prerelease" option. To learn more about what's included in an update, see the [release notes](../windows-app-sdk/stable-channel.md).)
* Click the **Update** button, then click **Apply** in the Preview changes dialog, then accept the license terms to finish installing the update.

:::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/nuget-update.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the NuGet package manager in Visual Studio showing a Windows App SDK package update.":::

Now your project is using the latest WinUI features that are available, and it's ready for you to make it your own.

## Next steps

* Complete a tutorial to [add more code to your Hello World app](../how-tos/hello-world-winui3.md).
* To get an idea of what WinUI has to offer, check out the WinUI Gallery app.
  [!INCLUDE [winui-3-gallery](../../includes/winui-3-gallery.md)]
* Learn more about [WinUI fundamentals](../develop/index.md).
* Explore [Fluent Design](../design/index.md) principles.
* Find [samples and tools](samples.md) to help you develop apps more efficiently.

Commit message:

Updated title Get Started with WinUI to Start developing Windows apps (#4720)

hub/apps/get-started/start-here.md, after:

---
title: Get started with Windows development using WinUI
description: List of steps to get started developing Windows apps with WinUI and the Windows App SDK.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/13/2024
keywords: windows, desktop development
ms.author: jken
author: GrantMeStrength
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.collection: windows11
---

# Start developing Windows apps

Welcome to Windows app development. This guide will take you through the steps needed to begin creating apps using the latest Windows development frameworks: the Windows App SDK and WinUI. It will also point you to resources that will help you learn more about Windows development. If you are already comfortable developing apps for Windows, but want to know more about the latest tools, please see [Develop Windows desktop apps](/windows/apps/develop/).


## 1. Install Visual Studio

You'll use [Visual Studio](/visualstudio/ide/), Microsoft's comprehensive integrated development environment (IDE), to create your WinUI app. It's the preferred development tool of many Windows developers and it will help you write, debug, and deploy your apps. The project templates in Visual Studio will quickly get you started with projects for Windows and many other platforms.

> [!TIP]
> Before installing these tools, make sure your development computer meets the [system requirements for Windows app development](../windows-app-sdk/system-requirements.md).

Use this link to download and install the latest Visual Studio. The installer will walk you through the steps, but if you find you need detailed instructions, see [Install Visual Studio](/visualstudio/install/install-visual-studio).

> [!div class="button"]
> [Download Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)

The free Visual Studio Community Edition includes everything you need to create your apps. If you're working with a development team or enterprise, you might need Visual Studio Professional or Visual Studio Enterprise. See [What is Visual Studio?](/visualstudio/get-started/visual-studio-ide) for more info.

### Required workloads and components

While installing Visual Studio, you need to install the workloads and components required for developing with WinUI and the Windows App SDK. After installation, you can open the Visual Studio Installer app and select **Modify** to add workloads and components.

On the **Workloads** tab of the Visual Studio Installer app, select the following workloads and components:

#### [Visual Studio 2022 version 17.10 and later](#tab/vs-2022-17-10)

* For **C#** app development using the Windows App SDK, select **Windows application development**.

:::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/vs-workload-winui.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Visual Studio installer UI with the Windows application development workload selected.":::

* For **C++** app development using the Windows App SDK, select **Windows application development**.
  * Then in the **Installation details** pane, under the **Windows application development** node, select **C++ WinUI app development tools**. (This will also select any additional required components.)

:::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/vs-workload-winui-cpp.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Visual Studio installer UI with the C++ WinUI app development tools selected.":::

#### [Visual Studio 2022 version 17.1 - 17.9](#tab/vs-2022-17-1)

* For **C#** app development using the Windows App SDK, select **.NET Desktop Development**.
  * Then in the **Installation details** pane of the installation dialog box, select **Windows App SDK C# Templates** (near the bottom of the list).
* For **C++** app development using the Windows App SDK, select **Desktop development with C++**
  * Then in the **Installation details** pane of the installation dialog box, select **Windows App SDK C++ Templates** (at the bottom of the list).
  * On the **Individual components** tab of the installation dialog box, in the **SDKs, libraries, and frameworks** section, make sure the latest Windows SDK is selected. It will look like **Windows 11 SDK (10.0.22621.0)**. Type "Windows SDK" into the search box to make it easier to find.

---

## 2. Enable Developer Mode

Windows has a special mode for developers that adjusts security settings in order to let you run the apps you're working on. You'll need to enable Developer Mode before you can build, deploy, and test your app using Visual Studio.

> [!TIP]
> If you don't enable it now, you'll be prompted to enable it when you try to build your app in Visual Studio.

To enable Developer Mode:

* Open Windows Settings and navigate to the **[System > For developers](ms-settings:developers)** page.
* Toggle the Developer Mode switch to **On** and confirm your choice in the confirmation dialog.

For more information about Developer Mode, see [Enable your device for development](/windows/apps/get-started/enable-your-device-for-development).

## 3. Create and launch your first WinUI app

Visual Studio project templates include all the files you need to quickly create your app. In fact, after you create your project from a WinUI app template, you'll already have an app that you can run, and then add your code to.

To create a new project using the WinUI C# Blank App project template:

1. Open Visual Studio and select **Create a new project** from the launch page. (If Visual Studio is already open to the editor, select **File** > **New** > **Project**):
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/start-project.png" alt-text="Create a new project":::

1. Search for `WinUI` and select the `Blank App, Packaged (WinUI 3 in Desktop)` C# project template, then click **Next**:
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/create-project.png" alt-text="Blank, packaged WinUI 3 C# desktop app":::

1. Specify a project name, then click **Create**. You can optionally specify a solution name and directory, or leave the defaults. In this image, the `Hello World` project belongs to a `Hello World` solution, which will live in `C:\Projects\`:
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/configure-project.png" alt-text="Specify project details":::
1. Click the Debug "Start" button to build and run your project:<br/>
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/start-click.png" alt-text="Build and run your project":::<br/>
  Your `Hello World` project will build, be deployed to your local machine, and run in debug mode:<br/>
  :::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/click-me.png" alt-text="Hello World project built and running":::

1. To stop debugging, close the app window, or click the debug "Stop" button in Visual Studio.

## 4. Update to the latest WinUI/Windows App SDK

The Windows App SDK (and WinUI, which is part of it) is distributed as a [NuGet](/nuget/what-is-nuget) package. This means updates can be released out-of-sync with Windows and Visual Studio. As a result, the Visual Studio template you used to create your project might not reference the latest Windows App SDK NuGet package. To ensure you have the latest features and fixes, you should update your NuGet packages every time you create a new project in Visual Studio.

To update the Windows App SDK NuGet package for your project:

* In Visual Studio, with your project loaded, select **Tools** > **NuGet Package Manager** > **Manage NuGet Packages for Solution...**.
* If an update is available, it will appear on the Updates page. Check the box next to the listed update. (To include prerelease updates, check the "Include prerelease" option. To learn more about what's included in an update, see the [release notes](../windows-app-sdk/stable-channel.md).)
* Click the **Update** button, then click **Apply** in the Preview changes dialog, then accept the license terms to finish installing the update.

:::image type="content" source="images/hello-world/nuget-update.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the NuGet package manager in Visual Studio showing a Windows App SDK package update.":::

Now your project is using the latest WinUI features that are available, and it's ready for you to make it your own.

## Next steps

* Complete a tutorial to [add more code to your Hello World app](../how-tos/hello-world-winui3.md).
* To get an idea of what WinUI has to offer, check out the WinUI Gallery app.
  [!INCLUDE [winui-3-gallery](../../includes/winui-3-gallery.md)]
* Learn more about [WinUI fundamentals](../develop/index.md).
* Explore [Fluent Design](../design/index.md) principles.
* Find [samples and tools](samples.md) to help you develop apps more efficiently.
