hub/apps/distribute-through-store/how-to-use-store-web-installer-for-distribution.md, before:

---
description: This section describes how you can use the Microsoft Store Web installer to improve distribution of your app on the web
title: How to use the Microsoft Store Web Installer to distribute your apps on the web.
ms.topic: article
author: desigrit
ms.author: raober
ms.date: 05/07/2024
keywords: uwp, microsoft store installer, store installer, web installer
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# How to use the Microsoft Store Web Installer to distribute your apps on the web

## Microsoft Store Web Installer - Introduction and user flow

The Microsoft Store Web Installer is a tool to help you download and install apps from websites such as [apps.microsoft.com](https://apps.microsoft.com) and the [Microsoft Store badge](https://apps.microsoft.com/badge) on developers' websites.

This system creates a stub .exe-based installer for your app, securely generated by the Microsoft Store online service. This installer is downloaded locally when you select the target button on a webpage. It's lightweight, containing only the necessary, most basic information rather than the full app binary.

:::image type="content" source="../images/app-download-file.png" lightbox="../images/app-download-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot example of downloading an app from Microsoft Store and where to open the file.":::

When this file is activated, the executable then fetches the app binary in real time from the Store service before installing.

Just like installing from the Store apps, this tool manages prerequisites and entitlements. It also checks age eligibilities to ensure correct installation.

:::image type="content" source="../images/app-installing.png" lightbox="../images/app-installing.png" alt-text="Screenshot example of an app from Microsoft Store installing locally.":::

Once installation is done, the app automatically launches so you can get started.

## Feature availability

This functionality is available for the following web-hosted content types:

- Free packaged MSIX content published on the Microsoft Store

This functionality isn't currently available for the following content types:

- MSIXVC apps published on the Microsoft Store
- Win32 apps published on the Microsoft Store
- Paid content published on the Microsoft Store
- Subscriptions
- Movies and TV content

## Enable this feature for your app

To enable the Store Web Installer for your app, you need to ensure that the following parameters are set in the calling URL:

- **On [apps.microsoft.com](https://apps.microsoft.com)**: You don't need to make any changes to enable the Store Web Installer for your app, as long as they're covered within the [Feature availability section](#feature-availability) and you've enabled **launch mode=full** or **launch mode=mini/pop-up**.
  - The Store Web Installer is the default installer on apps.microsoft.com, and these parameters help you override the default installation system.
- **On your website**: Follow these steps to switch to the Web installer on your website badge:
  1. Navigate to [apps.microsoft.com/badge](https://apps.microsoft.com/badge).
  1. Enter the right data for your app.
  1. Set **Launch mode=Direct** to ensure the required code is generated for your app.
  1. Copy the code, and insert the new badge within your website.

## Key notes for enterprise administrators

- If you've been using the *[ApplicationManagement/RequirePrivateStoreOnly](/microsoft-store/manage-access-to-private-store)* MDM policy and the *Only display the private store within the Microsoft Store* app group policy to block domain joined devices from accessing the Store, note that these settings are targeted toward disabling the Store app. This policy doesn't block installation or updates of apps within the Store.
- If you'd like to better control the types of apps that can be installed by domain-joined PCs, including apps from the Store and from the Microsoft Store Web Installer, visit [AppLocker - Windows Security](/windows/security/application-security/application-control/windows-defender-application-control/applocker/applocker-overview). This policy can be used in combination with RequirePrivateStoreOnly, or independently.
- If you'd like to specifically block installations from the Microsoft Store, including installations from the Microsoft Store Web Installer, use the [DisableStoreOriginatedApps policy](/windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-applicationmanagement#disablestoreoriginatedapps). This also blocks launch of preinstalled Store apps.

Commit message:

Refining documentation for Store Web Installer (#4242)
Introducing changes to..
- The language used in the user flow section
- Adding enterprise handling to feature availability
- Removed Subscriptions and Movies/TV from feature availability
- Corrected an error in "Enable this feature for your app"

hub/apps/distribute-through-store/how-to-use-store-web-installer-for-distribution.md, after:

---
description: This section describes how you can use the Microsoft Store Web installer to improve distribution of your app on the web
title: How to use the Microsoft Store Web Installer to distribute your apps on the web.
ms.topic: article
author: desigrit
ms.author: raober
ms.date: 05/07/2024
keywords: uwp, microsoft store installer, store installer, web installer
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# How to use the Microsoft Store Web Installer to distribute your apps on the web

## Microsoft Store Web Installer - Introduction and user flow

The Microsoft Store Web Installer is a standalone installer for Store applications to help you download and install apps from websites such as [apps.microsoft.com](https://apps.microsoft.com) and the [Microsoft Store badge](https://apps.microsoft.com/badge) on developers' websites.

This system creates a stub .exe-based installer for your app, securely generated by the Microsoft Store online service. This installer is downloaded locally when you select the target button on a webpage. It's lightweight, containing only the necessary, most basic information rather than the full app binary.

:::image type="content" source="../images/app-download-file.png" lightbox="../images/app-download-file.png" alt-text="Screenshot example of downloading an app from Microsoft Store and where to open the file.":::

When this file is activated, the installer will verify the pre-requisites (such as system architecture, age of the user, and availability in the users market) and subsequently initiate installation of the product using the same API used by the Store application. Any campaign IDs supplied by the source are tracked as well. If the app does not meet the pre-requisites, the installer will launch the Store application so that users can view additional information. 

:::image type="content" source="../images/app-installing.png" lightbox="../images/app-installing.png" alt-text="Screenshot example of an app from Microsoft Store installing locally.":::

Once installation is done, the installer will automatically launch the application and then close.

## Feature availability

This functionality is available for the following web-hosted content types:

- Free packaged MSIX content published on the Microsoft Store

This functionality isn't currently available for the following content types:

- MSIXVC apps published on the Microsoft Store
- Win32 apps published on the Microsoft Store
- Paid content published on the Microsoft Store
- Content rated above Everyone/ESRB (or equivalent) while signed in to Windows using an Enterprise account 

## Enable this feature for your app

To enable the Store Web Installer for your app, you need to ensure that the following parameters are set in the calling URL:

- **On [apps.microsoft.com](https://apps.microsoft.com)**: You don't need to make any changes to enable the Store Web Installer for your app, as long as they're covered within the [Feature availability section](#feature-availability) and you are not overriding this using the **launch mode=full** or **launch mode=mini/pop-up** URL parameters.
  - The Store Web Installer is the default installer on apps.microsoft.com, and these parameters help you override the default installation system.

- **On your website**: Follow these steps to switch to the Web installer on your website badge:
  1. Navigate to [apps.microsoft.com/badge](https://apps.microsoft.com/badge).
  1. Enter the right data for your app.
  1. Set **Launch mode=Direct** to ensure the required code is generated for your app.
  1. Copy the code, and insert the new badge within your website.

## Key notes for enterprise administrators

- If you've been using the *[ApplicationManagement/RequirePrivateStoreOnly](/microsoft-store/manage-access-to-private-store)* MDM policy and the *Only display the private store within the Microsoft Store* app group policy to block domain joined devices from accessing the Store, note that these settings are targeted toward disabling the Store app. This policy doesn't block installation or updates of apps within the Store.
- If you'd like to better control the types of apps that can be installed by domain-joined PCs, including apps from the Store and from the Microsoft Store Web Installer, visit [AppLocker - Windows Security](/windows/security/application-security/application-control/windows-defender-application-control/applocker/applocker-overview). This policy can be used in combination with RequirePrivateStoreOnly, or independently.
- If you'd like to specifically block installations from the Microsoft Store, including installations from the Microsoft Store Web Installer, use the [DisableStoreOriginatedApps policy](/windows/client-management/mdm/policy-csp-applicationmanagement#disablestoreoriginatedapps). This also blocks launch of preinstalled Store apps.
