---author: mcleanbyronms.assetid: 4a311d20-ba8c-4816-8091-35726428dc94description: Get additional examples that demonstrate how to use the properties, methods, and events of the AdControl and InterstitialAd classes in the Microsoft advertising libraries.title: Code samplesms.author: mcleansms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp, ads, advertising, code samples---# Code samplesThis section provides examples that demonstrate how to use the properties, methods, and events of the [AdControl](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/microsoft.advertising.winrt.ui.adcontrol.aspx) and [InterstitialAd](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/microsoft.advertising.winrt.ui.interstitialad.aspx)  classes in the Microsoft advertising libraries to target users, manually refresh ads, and handle events. For introductory walkthroughs that demonstrate how to add these controls to your app, see [Developer walkthroughs](developer-walkthroughs.md).For complete sample projects that demonstrate how to add banner and video interstitial ads to JavaScript/HTML apps and XAML apps using C# and C++, see the [advertising samples on GitHub](http://aka.ms/githubads).## In this section|  Topic    | Description |               |----------|-------|| [AdControl HTML properties example](html-properties-example.md)     | Shows a fully attributed **AdControl** in HTML.        || [AdControl XAML properties example](xaml-properties-example.md)     | Shows a fully attributed **AdControl** in XAML.        || [Create an AdControl in JavaScript](create-an-adcontrol-in-javascript.md)     | Shows how to create the **AdControl** using JavaScript.        || [AdControl events in JavaScript](adcontrol-events-in-javascript.md)     | Shows how to handle **AdControl** events in JavaScript.       || [AdControl events in C#](adcontrol-events-in-c.md)     | Shows how to handle **AdControl** events in C#.       || [AdControl error handling](adcontrol-error-handling.md)     | Provides examples of error handling code for the **AdControl** in different programming languages.        || [Interstitial ad sample code in C#](interstitial-ad-sample-code-in-c.md)   | Shows how to create an <strong>InterstitialAd</strong> using C#.        || [Interstitial ad sample code in JavaScript](interstitial-ad-sample-code-in-javascript.md)       | Shows how to create an <strong>InterstitialAd</strong> using JavaScript/HTML.        |   