---author: mcleanbyronms.assetid: FABA802F-9CB2-4894-9848-9BB040F9851Fdescription: Use the C# code examples in this section to learn more about using the Windows Store submission API.title: C# code examples for the Windows Store submission APIms.author: mcleansms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp, Windows Store submission API, code examples---# C\# code examples for the Windows Store submission APIThis article provides C# code examples for using the *Windows Store submission API*. For more information about this API, see [Create and manage submissions using Windows Store services](create-and-manage-submissions-using-windows-store-services.md).These code examples demonstrate the following tasks:* [Update an app submission](#update-app-submission)* [Create a new add-on submission](#create-add-on-submission)* [Update an add-on submission](#update-add-on-submission)* [Update a package flight submission](#update-flight-submission)You can review each example to learn more about the task it demonstrates, or you can build all the code examples in this article into a console application. To build the examples, create a C# console application named **DeveloperApiCSharpSample** in Visual Studio, copy each example to a separate code file in the project, and build the project.## PrerequisitesThese examples use the following libraries:* Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.dll. This library is available in the [Azure SDK for .NET](https://azure.microsoft.com/downloads/), or you can obtain it by installing the [WindowsAzure.Storage NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/WindowsAzure.Storage).* [Json.NET](http://www.newtonsoft.com/json) from Newtonsoft.## Main programThe following example implements a command line program that calls the other example methods in this article to demonstrate different ways to use the Windows Store submission API. To adapt this program for your own use:* Assign the ```ApplicationId```, ```InAppProductId```, and ```FlightId``` properties to the ID of the app, add-on (add-ons are also known as in-app products or IAPs), and package flight you want to manage. These IDs are available in the Dev Center dashboard.* Assign the ```ClientId``` and ```ClientSecret``` properties to the client ID and key for your app, and replace the *tenantid* string in the ```TokenEndpoint``` URL with the tenant ID for your app. For more information, see [How to associate an Azure AD application with your Windows Dev Center account](create-and-manage-submissions-using-windows-store-services.md#how-to-associate-an-azure-ad-application-with-your-windows-dev-center-account)> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"][!code-cs[SubmissionApi](./code/StoreServicesExamples_Submission/cs/Program.cs#Main)]<span id="clientconfiguration" />## ClientConfiguration helper classThe sample app uses the ```ClientConfiguration``` helper class to pass Azure Active Directory data and app data to each of the example methods that use the Windows Store submission API.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"][!code-cs[SubmissionApi](./code/StoreServicesExamples_Submission/cs/ClientConfiguration.cs#ClientConfiguration)]<span id="update-app-submission" />## Update an app submissionThe following example implements a class that uses several methods in the Windows Store submission API to update an app submission. The ```RunAppSubmissionUpdateSample``` method in the class creates a new submission as a clone of the last published submission, and then it updates and commits the cloned submission to Windows Dev Center. Specifically, the ```RunAppSubmissionUpdateSample``` method performs these tasks:1. To begin, the method [gets data for the specified app](get-an-app.md).2. Next, it [deletes the pending submission for the app](delete-an-app-submission.md), if one exists.3. It then [creates a new submission for the app](create-an-app-submission.md) (the new submission is a copy of the last published submission).4. It changes some details for the new submission and upload a new package for the submission to Azure Blob storage.5. Next, it [updates](update-an-app-submission.md) and then [commits](commit-an-app-submission.md) the new submission to Windows Dev Center.6. Finally, it periodically [checks the status of the new submission](get-status-for-an-app-submission.md) until the submission is successfully committed.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"][!code-cs[SubmissionApi](./code/StoreServicesExamples_Submission/cs/AppSubmissionUpdateSample.cs#AppSubmissionUpdateSample)]<span id="create-add-on-submission" />## Create a new add-on submissionThe following example implements a class that uses several methods in the Windows Store submission API to create a new add-on submission. The ```RunInAppProductSubmissionCreateSample``` method in the class performs these tasks:1. To begin, the method [creates a new add-on](create-an-add-on.md).2. Next, it [creates a new submission for the add-on](create-an-add-on-submission.md).3. It uploads a ZIP archive that contains icons for the submission to Azure Blob storage.4. Next, it [commits the new submission to Windows Dev Center](commit-an-add-on-submission.md).5. Finally, it periodically [checks the status of the new submission](get-status-for-an-add-on-submission.md) until the submission is successfully committed.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"][!code-cs[SubmissionApi](./code/StoreServicesExamples_Submission/cs/InAppProductSubmissionCreateSample.cs#InAppProductSubmissionCreateSample)]<span id="update-add-on-submission" />## Update an add-on submissionThe following example implements a class that uses several methods in the Windows Store submission API to update an existing add-on submission. The ```RunInAppProductSubmissionUpdateSample``` method in the class creates a new submission as a clone of the last published submission, and then it updates and commits the cloned submission to Windows Dev Center. Specifically, the ```RunInAppProductSubmissionUpdateSample``` method performs these tasks:1. To begin, the method [gets data for the specified add-on](get-an-add-on.md).2. Next, it [deletes the pending submission for the add-on](delete-an-add-on-submission.md), if one exists.3. It then [creates a new submission for the add-on](create-an-add-on-submission.md) (the new submission is a copy of the last published submission).5. Next, it [updates](update-an-add-on-submission.md) and then [commits](commit-an-add-on-submission.md) the new submission to Windows Dev Center.6. Finally, it periodically [checks the status of the new submission](get-status-for-an-add-on-submission.md) until the submission is successfully committed.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"][!code-cs[SubmissionApi](./code/StoreServicesExamples_Submission/cs/InAppProductSubmissionUpdateSample.cs#InAppProductSubmissionUpdateSample)]<span id="update-flight-submission" />## Update a package flight submissionThe following example implements a class that uses several methods in the Windows Store submission API to update a package flight submission. The ```RunFlightSubmissionUpdateSample``` method in the class creates a new submission as a clone of the last published submission, and then it updates and commits the cloned submission to Windows Dev Center. Specifically, the ```RunFlightSubmissionUpdateSample``` method performs these tasks:1. To begin, the method [gets data for the specified package flight](get-a-flight.md).2. Next, it [deletes the pending submission for the package flight](delete-a-flight-submission.md), if one exists.3. It then [creates a new submission for the package flight](create-a-flight-submission.md) (the new submission is a copy of the last published submission).4. It uploads a new package for the submission to Azure Blob storage.5. Next, it [updates](update-a-flight-submission.md) and then [commits](commit-a-flight-submission.md) the new submission to Windows Dev Center.6. Finally, it periodically [checks the status of the new submission](get-status-for-a-flight-submission.md) until the submission is successfully committed.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"][!code-cs[SubmissionApi](./code/StoreServicesExamples_Submission/cs/FlightSubmissionUpdateSample.cs#FlightSubmissionUpdateSample)]<span id="ingestionclient" />## IngestionClient helper classThe ```IngestionClient``` class provides helper methods that are used by other methods in the sample app to perform the following tasks:* [Obtain an Azure AD access token](create-and-manage-submissions-using-windows-store-services.md#obtain-an-azure-ad-access-token) that can be used to call methods in the Windows Store submission API. After you obtain a token, you have 60 minutes to use this token in calls to the Windows Store submission API before the token expires. After the token expires, you can generate a new token.* Upload a ZIP archive containing new assets for an app or add-on submission to Azure Blob storage. For more information about uploading a ZIP archive to Azure Blob storage for app and add-on submissions, see the relevant instructions in [Create an app submission](manage-app-submissions.md#create-an-app-submission) and [Create an add-on submission](manage-add-on-submissions.md#create-an-add-on-submission).* Process the HTTP requests for the Windows Store submission API.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"][!code-cs[SubmissionApi](./code/StoreServicesExamples_Submission/cs/IngestionClient.cs#IngestionClient)]## Related topics* [Create and manage submissions using Windows Store services](create-and-manage-submissions-using-windows-store-services.md)