---author: mcleanbyronms.assetid: 278114aa-2a44-4d63-a1d2-d512d8aababcdescription: Get general developer information about the Microsoft advertising libraries in the Microsoft Store Services SDK.title: Developer information about the Microsoft advertising librariesms.author: mcleansms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp, ads, advertising---# Developer information about the Microsoft advertising librariesThe topics in this section provide useful information to developers about the Microsoft advertising libraries in the Microsoft Store Services SDK (for UWP apps) and the Microsoft Advertising SDK for Windows and Windows Phone 8.x (for Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone 8.x apps).## In this section| Topic                                                                                                       | Description                 ||-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|| [UI and user experience guidelines](ui-and-user-experience-guidelines.md) |  Provides UI and user experience guidelines for displaying ads in apps.  || [Test mode values](test-mode-values.md)        |  Provides information about test application ID and ad unit ID to use while you are testing your app.   || [Set up ad units in your app](set-up-ad-units-in-your-app.md)      | Describes how to replace test application ID and ad unit ID values in your app with production values from the Windows Dev Center dashboard when you finish testing your app and are ready to submit it to Windows Dev Center.   || [Error handling](error-handling-with-advertising-libraries.md)                                    |  Describes how to handle errors that are generated by the **AdControl** class in the Microsoft advertising libraries.   || [Submit an app with ads to the Windows Store](submit-an-app-with-ads-to-the-windows-store.md)                                    |  Describes requirements from the App Developer Agreement that apps with ads must meet before they can be published.   || [Supported ad sizes for banner ads](supported-ad-sizes-for-banner-ads.md)                                    |  Provides the supported sizes for banner ads.   || [Supported markets for Microsoft advertising](supported-markets-for-microsoft-advertising.md)                                    |  Lists the supported markets for ads.   |  