---author: mcleanbyronms.assetid: cb7380d0-bc14-4936-aa1c-206304b3dc70description: Learn how to handle errors that are generated by the AdControl class in the Microsoft advertising libraries.title: Error handling with the Microsoft advertising librariesms.author: mcleansms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp, ads, advertising, error handling, javascript, XAML, c#---# Error handling with the Microsoft advertising librariesThis topic provides basic information about how to handle errors that are generated by the [AdControl](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/microsoft.advertising.winrt.ui.adcontrol.aspx) class in the Microsoft advertising libraries.<span id="bkmk-javascript"/>## JavaScript/HTML appsTo handle **AdControl** errors in a JavaScript app:1.  Assign the **onErrorOccurred** event to an event handler.2.  Code the event handler.The **onErrorOccurred** event handler is set in the **data-win-options** attribute for the **div** of the **AdControl**. In the following example, the **onErrorOccurred** event is set to be handled by a function named **errorLogger**.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"]``` html<div id="myAd" style="position: absolute; top: 53px; left: 0px; width: 250px; height: 250px; z-index: 1"     data-win-control="MicrosoftNSJS.Advertising.AdControl"     data-win-options="{applicationId: 'd25517cb-12d4-4699-8bdc-52040c712cab', adUnitId: 'ADPT33', onErrorOccurred: errorLogger}"></div>```The error handling function is declarative and must be enclosed in the [markSupportedForProcessing](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/Hh967819.aspx) function.The error handler catches the JavaScript error object when an **AdControl** error occurs. The error object provides two arguments to the error handler. For more information, see [Special Error Properties from Asynchronous Windows Runtime Methods](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh994690.aspx).Here is an example of an error handling function named **errorLogger** that handles the **onErrorOccurred** event.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"]``` javascriptWinJS.Utilities.markSupportedForProcessing(window.errorLogger = function (sender, evt) {    console.log(new Date()).toLocaleTimeString() + ": " + sender.element.id + " error: " + evt.errorMessage +    " error code: " + evt.errorCode + \n");});```See [Error Handling in JavaScript walkthrough](error-handling-in-javascript-walkthrough.md) for a walkthrough that demonstrates **AdControl** error handling in JavaScript.<span id="bkmk-dotnet"/>## XAML appsTo handle **AdControl** errors in a XAML app:* Assign the **ErrorOccurred** event to the name of an event handler delegate.* Code the error event handling delegate so that it takes two parameters: an **Object** for the sender and an **AdErrorEventArgs** object.Here is an example that assigns a delegate named **OnAdError** to the **ErrorOccurred** event.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"]``` csharpthis.ErrorOccurred = OnAdError;```Here is an example definition of the **OnAdError** delegate that writes error information to the output window in Visual Studio.> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"]``` csharpprivate void OnAdError(object sender, AdErrorEventArgs e){    System.Diagnostics.Debug.WriteLine("AdControl error (" + ((AdControl)sender).Name + "): " + e.Error +        " ErrorCode: " + e.ErrorCode.ToString());}```See [Error handling in XAML/C# walkthrough](error-handling-in-xamlc-walkthrough.md) for a walkthrough that demonstrates **AdControl** error handling in XAML and C#.  