---
ms.assetid: 646977ed-1705-4ea7-a3db-a6b9aac70703
description: Learn how to launch an interstitial ad using a Universal Windows Platform (UWP) app written in JavaScript and HTML.
title: Interstitial ad sample code in JavaScript
ms.date: 02/18/2020
ms.topic: article
keywords: windows 10, uwp, ads, advertising, interstitial, javascript, sample code
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
# Interstitial ad sample code in JavaScript

>[!WARNING]
> As of June 1, 2020, the Microsoft Ad Monetization platform for Windows UWP apps will be shut down. [Learn more](https://social.msdn.microsoft.com/Forums/windowsapps/en-US/db8d44cb-1381-47f7-94d3-c6ded3fea36f/microsoft-ad-monetization-platform-shutting-down-june-1st?forum=aiamgr)

This topic provides the complete sample code for a basic JavaScript and HTML Universal Windows Platform (UWP) app that shows an interstitial ad. For step-by-step instructions that show how to configure your project to use this code, see [Interstitial ads](interstitial-ads.md). For a complete sample project, see the [advertising samples on GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/Windows-universal-samples/tree/master/Samples/Advertising).

## Code example

This section shows the contents of the HTML and JavaScript files in a basic app that shows an interstitial ad. To use these examples, copy this code into a JavaScript **WinJS App (Universal Windows)** project in Visual Studio.

This sample app uses two buttons to request and then launch an interstitial ad. The main.js and index.html files generated by Visual Studio have been modified and are shown below. The script.js file shown below contains most of the code in the sample, and you should add this file to the **js** folder in your project.

Replace the values of the ```applicationId``` and ```adUnitId``` variables with live values from Partner Center before submitting your app to the Store. For more information, see [Set up ad units in your app](set-up-ad-units-in-your-app.md#live-ad-units).

> [!NOTE]
> To alter this example to show an interstitial banner ad instead of an interstitial video ad, pass the value **InterstitialAdType.display** to the first parameter of the [RequestAd](/uwp/api/microsoft.advertising.winrt.ui.interstitialad.requestad) method instead of **InterstitialAdType.video**. For more information, see [Interstitial ads](interstitial-ads.md).

### index.html

> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"]
:::code language="html" source="~/../snippets-windows/windows-uwp/monetize/AdvertisingSamples/InterstitialAdSamples/js/index.html" range="1-21":::

### script.js

> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"]
:::code language="javascript" source="~/../snippets-windows/windows-uwp/monetize/AdvertisingSamples/InterstitialAdSamples/js/script.js" id="script":::

### main.js

> [!div class="tabbedCodeSnippets"]
:::code language="javascript" source="~/../snippets-windows/windows-uwp/monetize/AdvertisingSamples/InterstitialAdSamples/js/main.js" id="main":::

## Related topics

* [Advertising samples on GitHub](https://github.com/Microsoft/Windows-universal-samples/tree/master/Samples/Advertising)

 
