hub/powertoys/cmd-not-found.md, before:

---
title: PowerToys Command Not Found for Windows
description: A PowerShell 7 module that detects an error thrown by a command and suggests a relevant WinGet package to install, if available.
ms.date: 02/01/2024
ms.topic: article
no-loc: [PowerToys, Windows, Command Not Found, Win]
---

# Command Not Found utility

A PowerShell 7 module that detects command-line errors and suggests a relevant WinGet package to install, if available.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> There are some incompatibilities between Command Not Found and some PowerShell configurations. You can read more about them in [issue 30818](https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/issues/30818) on GitHub.

![Command Not Found screenshot.](../images/pt-cmd-not-found.png)

## Requirements

 - [PowerShell 7](/PowerShell/scripting/install/installing-PowerShell-on-windows)
 - [PowerShell Microsoft.WinGet.Client module](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Microsoft.WinGet.Client)

## Installing the module

To install the Command Not Found module, navigate to the Command Not Found page in PowerToys settings and select the **Install** button. Once the module installation has completed, PowerShell 7 experimental features needed for the module to function will be enabled:

 - PSFeedbackProvider
 - PSCommandNotFoundSuggestion

After that, PowerShell profile file will be appended with following block of PowerShell commands:

```psh
#34de4b3d-13a8-4540-b76d-b9e8d3851756 PowerToys CommandNotFound module
Import-Module "<powertoys install dir>/WinGetCommandNotFound.psd1"
#34de4b3d-13a8-4540-b76d-b9e8d3851756
```

**Note:** The profile file will be created if needed. Restart PowerShell session to use the module.

## Uninstalling the module

To uninstall the Command Not Found module, navigate to the Command Not Found page in PowerToys settings and select the **Uninstall** button. Once the module uninstall has completed, the block of commands previously added will be removed from the PowerShell profile file.

Commit message:

Updates Command Not Found headings to be more specific

hub/powertoys/cmd-not-found.md, after:

---
title: PowerToys Command Not Found for Windows
description: A PowerShell 7 module that detects an error thrown by a command and suggests a relevant WinGet package to install, if available.
ms.date: 02/01/2024
ms.topic: article
no-loc: [PowerToys, Windows, Command Not Found, Win]
---

# Command Not Found utility

A PowerShell 7 module that detects command-line errors and suggests a relevant WinGet package to install, if available.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> There are some incompatibilities between Command Not Found and some PowerShell configurations. You can read more about them in [issue 30818](https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/issues/30818) on GitHub.

![Command Not Found screenshot.](../images/pt-cmd-not-found.png)

## Requirements

 - [PowerShell 7](/PowerShell/scripting/install/installing-PowerShell-on-windows)
 - [PowerShell Microsoft.WinGet.Client module](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Microsoft.WinGet.Client)

## Installing Command Not Found

To install the Command Not Found module, navigate to the Command Not Found page in PowerToys settings and select the **Install** button. Once the module installation has completed, PowerShell 7 experimental features needed for the module to function will be enabled:

 - PSFeedbackProvider
 - PSCommandNotFoundSuggestion

After that, PowerShell profile file will be appended with following block of PowerShell commands:

```psh
#34de4b3d-13a8-4540-b76d-b9e8d3851756 PowerToys CommandNotFound module
Import-Module "<powertoys install dir>/WinGetCommandNotFound.psd1"
#34de4b3d-13a8-4540-b76d-b9e8d3851756
```

**Note:** The profile file will be created if needed. Restart PowerShell session to use the module.

## Uninstalling Command Not Found

To uninstall the Command Not Found module, navigate to the Command Not Found page in PowerToys settings and select the **Uninstall** button. Once the module uninstall has completed, the block of commands previously added will be removed from the PowerShell profile file.
