hub/package-manager/winget/search.md, before:

---
title: search Command
description: Queries the sources for available applications that can be installed
ms.date: 08/24/2022
ms.topic: overview
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# search command (winget)

The **search** command of the [winget](index.md) tool can be used to show all applications available for installation. It can also be used to identify the string or ID needed to install a specific application.

For example, the command `winget search vscode` will return all applications available that include "vscode" in the description or tag.

The **search** command includes parameters for filtering down the applications returned to help you identify the specific application you are looking for, including: `--id`, `--name`, `--moniker`, `--tag`, `--command`, or `--source`. See descriptions [below](#search-strings) or use `winget search --help` in your command line.

## Usage

`winget search [[-q] \<query>] [\<options>]`

![Screenshot of the Windows Power Shell window displaying the results of the winget search.](./images/search.png)

## Arguments

The following arguments are available.

| Argument  | Description |
 --------------|-------------|
| **-q,--query** |  The query flag is the default argument used to search for an app. It does not need to be specified. Entering the command `winget search foo` will default to using `--query` so including it is unnecessary.|

> [!NOTE]
> The query argument is positional. Wild-card style syntax is not supported. This is most often the string of characters you expect to help find the package you are searching for.

## Show all

To show all of the winget packages available, use the command:

`winget search --query ""`

In PowerShell, you will need to escape the quotes, so this command becomes:

```powershell
winget search -q `"`"
```

> [!NOTE]
> This is a change from previous versions of winget which supported `winget search` with no filters or options displaying all available packages. You can also search for all applications in another source by passing in the **source** option.

## Search strings

Search strings can be filtered with the following options.

| Option  | Description |
 --------------|-------------|
| **--id**        |   Limits the search to the ID of the application. The ID includes the publisher and the application name. |
| **--name**      |  Limits the search to the name of the application. |
| **--moniker**  |    Limits the search to the moniker specified. |
| **--tag**    |  Limits the search to the tags listed for the application. |
| **--cmd, --command**   |   Limits the search to the commands listed for the application. |
| **-s, --source**     |  Find package using the specified [source](source.md) name. |
| **-n, --count**      |  Show no more than specified number of results (between 1 and 1000). |
| **-e, --exact**  |     Uses the exact string in the query, including checking for case-sensitivity. It will not use the default behavior of a substring.  |
| **--header** | Optional Windows-Package-Manager REST source HTTP header. |
| **--accept-source-agreements** | Accept all source agreements during source operations. |
| **--versions** | Show available versions of the package. |
| **--verbose, --verbose-logs** | Used to override the logging setting and create a verbose log. |
| **-?, --help** |  Gets additional help on this command. |
| **--wait** | Prompts the user to press any key before exiting. |
| **--logs,--open-logs** | Open the default logs location. |
| **--disable-interactivity** | Disable interactive prompts. |

The string will be treated as a substring. The search by default is also case insensitive. For example, `winget search micro` could return the following:

* Microsoft
* Microscope
* MyMicro

## Searching across multiple sources

If you want to narrow results down to a specific source, just pass the `--source` or `-s` parameter and specify what you want. For example, you might want to see if Visual Studio Code is in the store by running `winget search “Visual Studio Code” -s msstore`. This search uses "Visual Studio Code" as the query.

## Related topics

* [Use the winget tool to install and manage applications](index.md)

Commit message:

Add aliases for WinGet Commands

hub/package-manager/winget/search.md, after:

---
title: search Command
description: Queries the sources for available applications that can be installed
ms.date: 08/24/2022
ms.topic: overview
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# search command (winget)

The **search** command of the [winget](index.md) tool can be used to show all applications available for installation. It can also be used to identify the string or ID needed to install a specific application.

For example, the command `winget search vscode` will return all applications available that include "vscode" in the description or tag.

The **search** command includes parameters for filtering down the applications returned to help you identify the specific application you are looking for, including: `--id`, `--name`, `--moniker`, `--tag`, `--command`, or `--source`. See descriptions [below](#search-strings) or use `winget search --help` in your command line.

## Usage

`winget search [[-q] \<query>] [\<options>]`

![Screenshot of the Windows Power Shell window displaying the results of the winget search.](./images/search.png)

## Aliases

The following aliases are available for this command:

- find

## Arguments

The following arguments are available.

| Argument  | Description |
 --------------|-------------|
| **-q,--query** |  The query flag is the default argument used to search for an app. It does not need to be specified. Entering the command `winget search foo` will default to using `--query` so including it is unnecessary.|

> [!NOTE]
> The query argument is positional. Wild-card style syntax is not supported. This is most often the string of characters you expect to help find the package you are searching for.

## Show all

To show all of the winget packages available, use the command:

`winget search --query ""`

In PowerShell, you will need to escape the quotes, so this command becomes:

```powershell
winget search -q `"`"
```

> [!NOTE]
> This is a change from previous versions of winget which supported `winget search` with no filters or options displaying all available packages. You can also search for all applications in another source by passing in the **source** option.

## Search strings

Search strings can be filtered with the following options.

| Option  | Description |
 --------------|-------------|
| **--id**        |   Limits the search to the ID of the application. The ID includes the publisher and the application name. |
| **--name**      |  Limits the search to the name of the application. |
| **--moniker**  |    Limits the search to the moniker specified. |
| **--tag**    |  Limits the search to the tags listed for the application. |
| **--cmd, --command**   |   Limits the search to the commands listed for the application. |
| **-s, --source**     |  Find package using the specified [source](source.md) name. |
| **-n, --count**      |  Show no more than specified number of results (between 1 and 1000). |
| **-e, --exact**  |     Uses the exact string in the query, including checking for case-sensitivity. It will not use the default behavior of a substring.  |
| **--header** | Optional Windows-Package-Manager REST source HTTP header. |
| **--accept-source-agreements** | Accept all source agreements during source operations. |
| **--versions** | Show available versions of the package. |
| **--verbose, --verbose-logs** | Used to override the logging setting and create a verbose log. |
| **-?, --help** |  Gets additional help on this command. |
| **--wait** | Prompts the user to press any key before exiting. |
| **--logs,--open-logs** | Open the default logs location. |
| **--disable-interactivity** | Disable interactive prompts. |

The string will be treated as a substring. The search by default is also case insensitive. For example, `winget search micro` could return the following:

* Microsoft
* Microscope
* MyMicro

## Searching across multiple sources

If you want to narrow results down to a specific source, just pass the `--source` or `-s` parameter and specify what you want. For example, you might want to see if Visual Studio Code is in the store by running `winget search “Visual Studio Code” -s msstore`. This search uses "Visual Studio Code" as the query.

## Related topics

* [Use the winget tool to install and manage applications](index.md)
