hub/package-manager/winget/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Debugging and troubleshooting issues with the winget tool
description: Provides information on logging and winget diagnostics.
ms.date: 10/01/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Debugging and troubleshooting issues with the winget tool

When Windows Package Manager is installing, searching or listing applications, sometimes it is necessary to look at the log files to understand the behavior better.

## Logs

Windows Package Manager by default creates log files when executing commands. These log files are located here:

```CMD
> Logs: %LOCALAPPDATA%\Packages\Microsoft.DesktopAppInstaller_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalState\DiagOutputDir
```

By navigating to this folder you will find the logs the *winget* tool has written.

### --verbose-logs

If you need more comprehensive log files, that provide the complete communication with the CDNs and sources, include **--verbose-logs** on the command line as well.  Here are some examples of using the **--verbose-logs** option:

```CMD
> winget install vscode --verbose-logs
> winget search -n visual --verbose-logs
> winget source add -n mysource -t Microsoft.REST -a https://www.contoso.org --verbose-logs
```

## Known issues

A list of known issues with sources and behaviors is kept up to date in the [Windows Package Manager Client repository](https://www.github.com/microsoft/winget-cli).  If you encounter issues when using the winget tool, go [here](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/tree/master/doc/troubleshooting) for troubleshooting.

### Scope for specific user vs machine-wide

Not all installers support installing in “user” scope vs. “machine” scope consistently.

- [MSIX-based packages](/windows/msix/overview): Reliable WinGet behavior.
- [MSI-based packages](/windows/win32/msi/installation-package) typically support reliable WinGet configurations, but in some cases, are nested inside an .exe-based installer so there may be more variability.
- [EXE-based installers](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3886455/whats-the-difference-between-an-exe-and-a-msi-installer) behavior around scope is not necessarily deterministic. In some cases the arguments to specify scope are not available, and in other cases the installer may make the determination based on whether the user is a member of the local administrators group. Packages installed in user scope may still require UAC (User Account Control) authorization from an administrator.

See more details on [scope-related issues](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea-scope) in the WinGet product repository on GitHub.

Commit message:

Add section for exit codes in troubleshooting

hub/package-manager/winget/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Debugging and troubleshooting issues with the winget tool
description: Provides information on logging and winget diagnostics.
ms.date: 10/01/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Debugging and troubleshooting issues with the winget tool

When Windows Package Manager is installing, searching or listing applications, sometimes it is necessary to look at the log files to understand the behavior better.

## Logs

Windows Package Manager by default creates log files when executing commands. These log files are located here:

```CMD
> Logs: %LOCALAPPDATA%\Packages\Microsoft.DesktopAppInstaller_8wekyb3d8bbwe\LocalState\DiagOutputDir
```

By navigating to this folder you will find the logs the *winget* tool has written.

### --verbose-logs

If you need more comprehensive log files, that provide the complete communication with the CDNs and sources, include **--verbose-logs** on the command line as well.  Here are some examples of using the **--verbose-logs** option:

```CMD
> winget install vscode --verbose-logs
> winget search -n visual --verbose-logs
> winget source add -n mysource -t Microsoft.REST -a https://www.contoso.org --verbose-logs
```

## Known issues

A list of known issues with sources and behaviors is kept up to date in the [Windows Package Manager Client repository](https://www.github.com/microsoft/winget-cli).  If you encounter issues when using the winget tool, go [here](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/tree/master/doc/troubleshooting) for troubleshooting.

## Exit codes

The winget tool returns exit codes to indicate success or failure of the command.  A table of exit codes and their meanings is populated in the [Windows Package Manager Client repository](https://www.github.com/microsoft/winget-cli).  If you want to know what an exit code means, go [here](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/blob/master/doc/windows/package-manager/winget/returnCodes.md) to find out.

### Scope for specific user vs machine-wide

Not all installers support installing in “user” scope vs. “machine” scope consistently.

- [MSIX-based packages](/windows/msix/overview): Reliable WinGet behavior.
- [MSI-based packages](/windows/win32/msi/installation-package) typically support reliable WinGet configurations, but in some cases, are nested inside an .exe-based installer so there may be more variability.
- [EXE-based installers](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3886455/whats-the-difference-between-an-exe-and-a-msi-installer) behavior around scope is not necessarily deterministic. In some cases the arguments to specify scope are not available, and in other cases the installer may make the determination based on whether the user is a member of the local administrators group. Packages installed in user scope may still require UAC (User Account Control) authorization from an administrator.

See more details on [scope-related issues](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-cli/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea-scope) in the WinGet product repository on GitHub.
