hub/includes/store/msi/add-additional-information.md, before:

The items described below help customers discover and understand your product.

## Search terms

*Character limit: 30 per search term*<br>*Search term limit: 7*

Search terms are single words or short phrases that help make your app discoverable in the Store when customers search using those terms. They are not displayed to customers.

When adding search terms, think about the words that customers might use when searching for apps like yours, especially if they're not part of your app's name. Only use search terms that are relevant to your app.

:::image type="content" source="images/msiexe-additional-info.png" lightbox="images/msiexe-additional-info.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Store listings section where you can provide additional information like search terms, copyright and trademark info for your app listing.":::

> [!WARNING]
> In addition to the search term and character limits described above, you cannot use more than 21 unique words across all of your search terms.

## Copyright and trademark info

*Character limit: 200*

Enter any copyright or trademark info that applies to your app here.

## Additional license terms

*Character limit: 10,000*

Enter license terms for your app to be licensed to customers. License terms will be displayed as plain text in the store.

You can enter a single url in this field instead of your license text. If you do, the store will display the url as link to a page that contains your additional license terms. This is useful if your additional license terms are very long, or if you want to include clickable links or formatting in your additional license terms.

## Developed by

*Character limit: 255*

Enter text here if you want to include a Developed by field in your app's Store listing.

This value will not be displayed in the **Published by** field; that field always displays the publisher's display name.

Commit message:

Ankur/AI generated keywords (#3634)
* Delete msiexe-additional-info.png

* Add files via upload

* Added a section on AI-generated keywords

* Add files via upload

* Added new screenshot for AI generated keywords

* Update add-additional-information.md

* Update add-additional-information.md

hub/includes/store/msi/add-additional-information.md, after:

The items described below help customers discover and understand your product.

:::image type="content" source="images/msiexe-additional-info.png" lightbox="images/msiexe-additional-info.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Store listings section where you can provide additional information like keywords, copyright and trademark info for your app listing.":::

## Keywords

*Character limit: 40 per keyword*<br>*Keyword limit: 7*

Keywords are single words or short phrases that help make your app discoverable in the Store when customers search using those terms. They are not displayed to customers.

When adding keywords, think about the words that customers might use when searching for apps like yours, especially if they're not part of your app's name. Only use keywords that are relevant to your app.

You can also use **AI-Generated keywords** for your app. You just need to enter the app description and AI will recommend you search terms for your app. You will see a card for recommended keywords near the keyword field. You can click on **Add All** to add all recommended keywords to your app submission, or you can manually add one recommended keyword at a time. 

:::image type="content" source="images/msiexe-ai-generated-keywords.png" lightbox="images/msiexe-ai-generated-keywords.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Store listings section where you can use AI-Generated keywords for your app listing.":::

> [!WARNING]
> In addition to the keyword and character limits described above, you cannot use more than 21 unique words across all of your keywords.

## Copyright and trademark info

*Character limit: 200*

Enter any copyright or trademark info that applies to your app here.

## Additional license terms

*Character limit: 10,000*

Enter license terms for your app to be licensed to customers. License terms will be displayed as plain text in the store.

You can enter a single url in this field instead of your license text. If you do, the store will display the url as link to a page that contains your additional license terms. This is useful if your additional license terms are very long, or if you want to include clickable links or formatting in your additional license terms.

## Developed by

*Character limit: 255*

Enter text here if you want to include a Developed by field in your app's Store listing.

This value will not be displayed in the **Published by** field; that field always displays the publisher's display name.
