hub/includes/store/msi/enter-app-properties.md, before:

App properties describe important details about your app including requirements, capabilities, and your contact information. The **Properties** page of the [app submission process](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/create-app-submission.md) is where you define your app's category and enter other info and declarations. Be sure to provide complete and accurate details about your app on this page.

## Category and Subcategory 
*Category is required*

Categories and subcategories help users discover your app, and they help users understand what your app does.

Choose the categories that best describe your app. If the primary category includes subcategories, select the one that best describes your app. If none of the available subcategories seem to fit, you can leave subcategory blank, or choose a subcategory you think customers who would want your app would be most likely to browse. You can optionally choose a secondary category for your app. Secondary category has the same list of categories as the Primary category.

For more info, see [Category and subcategory table](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/categories-and-subcategories.md).

## Support info section

This section lets you provide info such as Privacy policy URL, website and support contact info to help customers understand more about your app and how to get support. You are responsible for ensuring your app complies with applicable privacy laws and regulations, and for providing a valid privacy policy URL here if required.

## Product declarations section

You can check boxes in this section to indicate if any of the declarations apply to your app. This may affect the way your app is displayed, whether it is offered to certain customers, or how customers can use it.

## System requirements section

**System Requrements** (Touch screen, Keyboard, Mouse, Camera, NFC HCE, NFC Proximity, Bluetooth LE, Telephony, Microphone, Memory, DirectX, Video Memory, Processor, Graphics)

Commit message:

Fixing win32 app submission docs (#4092)
* Delete hub/includes/store/msi/images/msiexe-packages-overview.png

* Add files via upload

* Add files via upload

* Win32 doc updates

* Fixing links

* Fixing additional links

* Additional content fixes

* Add files via upload

* Added more screenshots

* fixing image url

* image url fix 2

* Fixing content

* Update app-package-requirements.md

hub/includes/store/msi/enter-app-properties.md, after:

App properties describe important details about your app including requirements, capabilities, and your contact information. The **Properties** page of the [app submission process](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/create-app-submission.md) is where you define your app's category and enter other info and declarations. Be sure to provide complete and accurate details about your app on this page.

:::image type="content" source="images/msiexe-properties-overview.png" lightbox="images/msiexe-properties-overview.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the overview of Properties section for EXE/MSI app.":::

## Category, subcategory and secondary category
*Category is required*

Categories and subcategories help users discover your app, and they help users understand what your app does.

Choose the categories that best describe your app. If the primary category includes subcategories, select the one that best describes your app. If none of the available subcategories seem to fit, you can leave subcategory blank, or choose a subcategory you think customers who would want your app would be most likely to browse. You can optionally choose a secondary category for your app. Secondary category has the same list of categories as the Primary category.

For more info, see [Category and subcategory table](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/categories-and-subcategories.md).

## Support info section

This section lets you provide info such as Privacy policy URL, website and support contact info to help customers understand more about your app and how to get support. You are responsible for ensuring your app complies with applicable privacy laws and regulations, and for providing a valid privacy policy URL here if required. You can also provide contact details like Email, Phone number and Address. 

## Product declarations section

You can check boxes in this section to indicate if any of the declarations apply to your app. This may affect the way your app is displayed, whether it is offered to certain customers, or how customers can use it.

## System requirements section

**System Requirements** (Touch screen, Keyboard, Mouse, Camera, NFC HCE, NFC Proximity, Bluetooth LE, Telephony, Microphone, Memory, DirectX, Dedicated GPU Memory, Processor, Graphics)
