hub/includes/store/msi/price-and-availability.md, before:

## Markets

The Microsoft Store reaches customers in over 240 countries and regions around the world. By default, we’ll offer your app in all possible markets. If you prefer, you can choose the specific markets in which you'd like to offer your app.

For more info, see [Define market selection](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/market-selection.md).

## Visibility

The **Visibility** section allows you to set restrictions on how your app can be discovered and acquired, including whether people can find your app in the Store or see its Store listing at all.

For more info, see [Choose visibility options](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/visibility-options.md).

## Discoverability

The selections in the Discoverability section indicate how customers can discover and acquire your app.

### Make this product available and discoverable in the Store

This is the default option. Leave this option selected if you want your app to be listed in the Store for customers to find via the app's direct link and/or by other methods, including searching, browsing, and inclusion in curated lists.

### Make this product available but not discoverable in the Store

When you select this option, your app can’t be found in the Store by customers searching or browsing; the only way to get to your app’s listing is by a direct link.

Commit message:

Fixing win32 app submission docs (#4092)
* Delete hub/includes/store/msi/images/msiexe-packages-overview.png

* Add files via upload

* Add files via upload

* Win32 doc updates

* Fixing links

* Fixing additional links

* Additional content fixes

* Add files via upload

* Added more screenshots

* fixing image url

* image url fix 2

* Fixing content

* Update app-package-requirements.md

hub/includes/store/msi/price-and-availability.md, after:

:::image type="content" source="images/msiexe-availability-overview.png" lightbox="images/msiexe-availability-overview.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the overview of Availability section for EXE/MSI app.":::

## Markets

The Microsoft Store reaches customers in over 240 countries and regions around the world. By default, we’ll offer your app in all possible markets. If you prefer, you can choose the specific markets in which you'd like to offer your app.

For more info, see [Define market selection](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/market-selection.md).

## Pricing

Choose your pricing model from Free, Freemium, Subscription and Paid. For more info, see [Set app pricing](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/schedule-pricing-changes.md).

## Discoverability

The selections in the Discoverability section indicate how customers can discover and acquire your app.

### Make this product available and discoverable in the Store

This is the default option. Leave this option selected if you want your app to be listed in the Store for customers to find via the app's direct link and/or by other methods, including searching, browsing, and inclusion in curated lists.

### Make this product available through direct link only but not discoverable in the Microsoft Store

When you select this option, your app can’t be found in the Store by customers searching or browsing; the only way to get to your app’s listing is by a direct link.
