hub/includes/store/msi/publish-update-to-your-app-on-store.md, before:

We recommend you submit updates for your EXE or MSI apps through the Store. This ensures that new customers always get and install your latest app version.

The Store allows existing users to install in-app updates through your app, if your installer supports it. The Store does not provide these updates automatically or manually to existing users. 

You can make changes to a published app at any time. To submit updates, go to the application's page in Partner Center and click  **Update** on the right-hand side for your app submission that’s live on the Store. This will create a new submission for the application, using the info from your previous submission as a starting point. 

Go to the required sections like [Pricing and availability](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/price-and-availability.md), [Properties](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/enter-app-properties.md), [Age ratings](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/age-ratings.md), [Packages](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/upload-app-packages.md) and [Store listing](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/create-app-store-listing.md) to make the changes you'd like and save them. Then click  **Publish** on Manage Store listing page.

> [!NOTE]
> ### Update package details
> After updating/adding the new package details, click on Save draft. You will be back on Manage Packages page. In the list of packages, you will see your existing package or the new package has been added. Now, click on **Save All**. You will see a message that your package is uploading and after a successful upload, you will get a message as Saved Successfully.

> [!NOTE]
> Any updates to EXE or MSI apps are subject to [Application Developer Agreement](/legal/windows/agreements/app-developer-agreement) and the [Microsoft Store Policies](../../../apps/publish/store-policies.md), which may be updated from time to time. To add new functionalities that require written customer consent via your app update, you must provide notice to customers and get their written consent as required by law in the markets where you choose to distribute your app.

Commit message:

Fixing win32 app submission docs (#4092)
* Delete hub/includes/store/msi/images/msiexe-packages-overview.png

* Add files via upload

* Add files via upload

* Win32 doc updates

* Fixing links

* Fixing additional links

* Additional content fixes

* Add files via upload

* Added more screenshots

* fixing image url

* image url fix 2

* Fixing content

* Update app-package-requirements.md

hub/includes/store/msi/publish-update-to-your-app-on-store.md, after:

We recommend you submit updates for your EXE or MSI apps through the Store. This ensures that new customers always get and install your latest app version.

The Store allows existing users to install in-app updates through your app, if your installer supports it. The Store does not provide these updates automatically or manually to existing users. 

You can make changes to a published app at any time. To submit updates, go to the application's overview page in Partner Center. Navigate to the Update app section. An update submission has already been created using the info from your previous submission as a starting point.

:::image type="content" source="images/msiexe-update-app.png" lightbox="images/msiexe-update-app.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing how to submit an update for EXE/MSI app.":::

Go to the required sections like [Pricing and availability](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/price-and-availability.md), [Properties](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/enter-app-properties.md), [Age ratings](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/age-ratings.md), [Packages](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/upload-app-packages.md) and [Store listing](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/create-app-store-listing.md) to make the changes you'd like and save them. Then click  **Publish** on Manage Store listing page.

> [!NOTE]
> ### Update package details
> After updating/adding the new package details, click on Save draft. You will be back on Manage Packages page. In the list of packages, you will see your existing package or the new package has been added. Now, click on **Save All**. You will see a message that your package is uploading and after a successful upload, you will get a message as Saved Successfully.

> [!NOTE]
> Any updates to EXE or MSI apps are subject to [Application Developer Agreement](/legal/windows/agreements/app-developer-agreement) and the [Microsoft Store Policies](../../../apps/publish/store-policies.md), which may be updated from time to time. To add new functionalities that require written customer consent via your app update, you must provide notice to customers and get their written consent as required by law in the markets where you choose to distribute your app.
