---author: eliotcowley
title: Concept approval
description: Learn how to submit your product for concept approval, which you will need if your product runs on Xbox or uses Xbox Live.
ms.assetid: 850ec988-761b-49d8-9508-da8a83108de3
ms.author: elcowle
ms.date: 02/08/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: uwp
keywords: windows 10, uwp, concept approval
---# Concept approvalWhen you begin creating a game that will run on Xbox, you will need to submit a proposal concerning that game to Microsoft for *concept approval* before you can publish it. This up-front, high-level submission benefits both Microsoft and you by identifying at the very beginning of the process any likely difficulties or drawbacks in the overall plan for the game. Try to make sure that your content isn't overly vulgar, offensive, or objectionable, and that it feels at home on the target platform. Once you submit your proposal, Microsoft will review it and then notify you of the result.If you are developing a Universal Windows Platform (UWP) game, you only need concept approval if you want to allow customers to download it on Xbox devices or you want to enable Xbox Live features. If you only want to make your UWP game available to Windows desktop or mobile devices (or if you're publishing a UWP app that's *not* a game, targeting any device), and you won't be using Xbox Live, all you need is a [developer account](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=817223), and you can freely configure and submit your app to the Store through the dashboard.## Submit your concept for approvalIf you are an independent game developer or publisher, you can submit your concept for approval through the ID@Xbox program. Learn more about ID@Xbox and apply [here](http://www.xbox.com/Developers/id).If you are already an ID@Xbox developer, you should have been sent a link to the Game Information Form (GIF) where you can submit your game concept. If you have questions, contact [id@xbox.com](mailto:id@xbox.com).If you have an existing license agreement with Microsoft, contact your Microsoft account team for information on submitting your concept.