---author: jnHstitle: App install ads reportms.assetid: 8C5907A6-8059-4CAF-951F-C97301A5EEDFdescription: ms.author: wdg-dev-contentms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp---# App install ads reportThere are two ways to get to the **App install ads reports** page in Dev Center:-   From the left navigation menu on your app's page, click **Analytics** &gt; **App install ads**.-   From the left navigation menu on your app's page, click **Monetization** &gt; **Promote your app**, and then click a campaign's **Report** link.Here you'll see two sections: **Ad performance** and **Account billing history**.## Ad performanceHere, performance metrics are displayed as lines plotted on a graph, with the selected metric on the y-axis and time on the x-axis. The default report shows Impressions. Click the tab headers to view data for other performance metrics. The metrics tracked here are:-   **Impressions**: The number of times your ad has been shown.-   **Clicks**: The number of times someone clicked on your ad.-   **Installs**: The number of times someone clicked on your ad and then installed your app. See below for more information on install tracking.You can display performance data for up to four different ad campaigns at a time. Click **More campaigns** to choose which campaigns to display. You can also click the minus symbol by a displayed campaign to remove it.### What is install tracking?Running an install ad campaign through **Promote your app** on Dev Center provides much-needed exposure for developers trying to advertise their apps. Ad impressions are shown to users who are most likely to be interested in the app, and the users click on the ad and install the app from the Store. Until today, it was hard to distinguish between installs that were the result of an ad campaign versus installs that came from other sources.We have now enabled Install reports for app install campaigns that tell developers how many installs they have earned by running the ad campaign. This only represents downloads that are a direct outcome of the ad campaign, and does not include downloads from other sources.By monitoring installs for their ad campaigns, developers can measure the true return on investment from the money spent on promoting their apps. It also helps in comparing the cost of obtaining a new user with the lifetime value of users.### How are installs measured?**Promote your app** ad campaigns deliver ad impressions within other apps. Users who are exposed to the ad are likely to install the app in one of two ways: by clicking the ad or based on viewing the ad impression.If a user is shown an ad and he or she installs the app within 24 hours -- by either clicking the ad, or directly going to the Store page of the app -- that install is attributed to the campaign that delivered the impression.An install is tracked in the Store -- across phone, tablet, and PC -- based on the user who installed the app. The advertising engine tracks users who see the ad and we use this information to correlate the users who viewed the ad with the users who installed the app. In order for the app install to be counted, a few requirements must be met:1.  The user has not opted out of targeting.2.  The user is logged in to a Microsoft account.3.  The user meets [COPPA](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink?LinkId=536558) requirements (users that don’t meet COPPA requirements cannot be tracked).As a result, it is possible the app install tracking may *underreport* the actual number of installs generated by a **Promote your app** campaign. Please note that the total number of downloads for an app is viewable in the **Acquisitions** report in Dev Center.## Account billing historyHere you can see all of the transactions associated with your account. For each transaction, we show the **Transaction date**, the appropriate **Campaign name**, the **Payment instrument** charged, and the **Total amount** of the charge.## Related topics* [Create an ad campaign for your app](create-an-ad-campaign-for-your-app.md)* [Managing your ad campaign](managing-your-ad-campaign.md)* [About house ads](about-house-ads.md)* [Common questions](common-questions.md)  