---author: jnHsDescription: Listing your app in the right category and subcategory helps customers find your app and understand more about it.title: Category and subcategory tablems.assetid: D451C468-DCCD-4966-AB87-8E766615A72Fms.author: wdg-dev-contentms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp---# Category and subcategory tableListing your app in the right category and subcategory helps customers find your app and understand more about it.Choose the category that best describes your app. Then choose a subcategory, if available.> **Note**  If you choose **Games** for your category, a subcategory is required.An app can only be listed in one category (and one subcategory, if available.) If you're not sure which category or subcategory to use, choose the one that you think customers are most likely to look at when trying to find apps like yours.If you want to change the category or subcategory of an app that's already in the Store, you can do that by [creating a new submission](app-submissions.md) and selecting the new category.> **Important** If you publish the app in the **Games** category, you won't be able to pick a different category in a new submission. You also can't choose the **Games** category in an update to an app that you previously published in a different category.The Windows Store organizes apps into the following categories and subcategories.Only some categories have subcategories. Keep in mind that you can only use a subcategory if it belongs to the category you picked.| Category                    | Subcategory                                       ||-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|| Books + reference           | E-reader <br> Fiction <br> Nonfiction <br> Reference || Business                    | Accounting + finance <br> Collaboration <br> CRM <br> Data + analytics <br> File management <br> Inventory + logistics <br> Legal + HR <br> Project management <br> Remote desktop <br> Sales + marketing <br> Time + expenses || Developer tools             | Database <br> Design tools <br> Development kits <br> Networking <br> Reference + training <br> Servers <br> Utilities <br> Web hosting || Education                   | Books + reference <br> Early learning <br> Instructional tools <br> Language <br> Study aids || Entertainment               | (None)                                            || Food + dining               | (None)                                            || Games                       | Action + adventure <br> Card + board <br> Casino <br> Educational <br> Family + kids <br> Fighting <br> Music <br> Platformer <br> Puzzle + trivia <br> Racing + flying <br> Role playing <br> Shooter <br> Simulation <br> Sports <br> Strategy <br> Word || Government + politics       | (None)                                            || Health + fitness            | (None)                                            || Kids + family               | Books + reference <br> Entertainment <br> Hobbies + toys <br> Sports + activities <br> Travel || Lifestyle                   | Automotive <br> DIY <br> Home + garden <br> Relationships <br> Special interest <br> Style + fashion || Medical                     | (None)                                            || Multimedia design           | Illustration + graphic design <br> Music production <br> Photo + video production || Music                       | (None)                                            || Navigation + maps           | (None)                                            || News + weather              | News <br> Weather                                 || Personal finance            | Banking + investments <br> Budgeting + taxes      || Personalization             | Ringtones + sounds <br> Themes <br> Wallpaper + lock screens || Photo + video               | (None)                                            || Productivity                | (None)                                            || Security                    | PC protection <br> Personal security <br>         || Shopping                    | (None)                                            || Social                      | (None)                                            || Sports                      | (None)                                            || Travel                      | City guides <br> Hotels                           || Utilities + tools           | Backup + manage <br> File managers                | > **Note**  For info on the categories used in the Windows Store for Windows 8.1 and earlier, and in the Windows Phone Store, and how they relate to the category list above, see [How your app appears in the Store for Windows 10 customers](how-your-app-appears-in-the-store-for-windows-10-customers.md#category-changes).