---author: jnHsDescription: If you've provided packages targeting different operating systems, you have the option to customize parts of your Store listing for different targeted operating systems.title: Create platform-specific Store listingsms.assetid: 5BE66BE2-669C-49E0-8915-60F1027EF94Ams.author: wdg-dev-contentms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp---# Create platform-specific Store listingsIf you've provided packages targeting different operating systems, you have the option to customize parts of your Store listing for different targeted operating systems. You will not see this option unless you have already uploaded packages, and include packages for earlier OS versions (Windows 8.x or earlier and/or Windows Phone 8.x or earlier).> **Important**  Customers on Windows 10 will always see your default Store listing.Platform-specific Store listings can be useful if you want to mention features that appear only in one OS version, or want to provide screenshots that are specific to a particular OS (independent of device type), rather than having all customers see the same Store listing.> **Note**  Creating a platform-specific Store listing in one language does not create a platform-specific Store listing in other languages that your app supports, even if you have [entered Store listing info](create-app-store-listings.md) for those languages. You'll need to create the platform-specific Store listing separately for each language.## Creating a platform-specific Store listingNear the top of your **Store listing** page, you'll see a link to **create a platform-specific app Store listing** if you have uploaded packages that support earlier OS versions ((Windows 8.x or earlier and/or Windows Phone 8.x or earlier).> **Tip** You can't create platform-specific Store listings until after you've uploaded packages.When you click the link to **create a platform-specific app Store listing**, a popup will appear asking you to choose from your supported targeted operating systems. Windows 10 is not included in the list of choices, because customers on Windows 10 will always see the app's default Store listing.> **Note**  If you've already created platform-specific Store listings for all of the OS versions your app targets, you won't be able to make a selection.You can use your default Store listing as a starting point, which will bring over all of the text and images you've entered for your default Store listing; you'll then be able to make any changes you'd like before saving. You can also start from a completely blank Store listing if you prefer.After you click **Continue**, your **Store listing** page will now include a section for the platform-specific Store listing you've just created (underneath the [Default Store listing](create-app-store-listings.md#default-store-listing-fields) section). This section will include its own set of fields for **Description** (required), **Release notes**, **Screenshots**, **App tile icon**, **App features**, and **Additional system requirements**. Make sure to enter info into each field where you want to display info in the custom Store listing, even if it's the same info as in your default Store listing. If you leave any of these fields blank, no info will appear for that field in the custom Store listing.> **Note**  Not all fields of your app's Store listing can be customized for a specific targeted OS. For more info, see [Shared fields](create-app-store-listings.md#shared-fields).## Removing a platform-specific Store listingIf you create a platform-specific Store listing and later decide you'd rather show your default Store listing to customers on that operating system, click the **Delete** link. After confirming that you'd like to show those customers your default Store listing, click **OK**. The platform-specific Store listing will be removed. If you decide you want it back later, you can always create a new platform-specific Store listing for that operating system by following the steps listed above.  