---author: jnHsDescription: You can download .tsv files that contain your analytics data so that you can review your stats and info offline.title: Download analytics reportsms.assetid: BCA61ABF-16ED-42C3-9014-68629CB5A24Fms.author: wdg-dev-contentms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp---# Download analytics reportsYou can download files that contain your analytics data so that you can review your stats and info offline.## To download a specific report1.  In the Windows Dev Center dashboard, select **Apps** in the top navigation menu.2.  On the **Apps** page, select one of your apps.3.  In the left navigation menu, expand **Analytics**, and then select one of the available reports.4.  On the report page, select **Download report**.5.  In the **Select an app** drop-down list, verify which app you want the report to cover. If you want the report to cover all of your apps, choose **All apps**.6.  In the **Reports available for download** drop-down list, verify which report you want to download.7.  In the **Aggregation level** and **Date range** drop-down lists, select your desired options for the report. Note that the options may vary depending on the type of report you've selected.8.  Select the **Download reports** button, save the .tsv file, and then open the file in Microsoft Excel or another program that supports tab-separated values (TSV) files.## Related topics- [Analytics](analytics.md)