---author: jnHsDescription: Learn how your app's packages are made available to your customers, and how to manage specific package scenarios.title: Guidance for app package managementms.assetid: 55405D0B-5C1E-43C8-91A1-4BFDD336E6ABms.author: wdg-dev-contentms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp---# Guidance for app package managementLearn how your app's packages are made available to your customers, and how to manage specific package scenarios.-   [OS versions and package distribution](#os-versions-and-package-distribution)-   [Adding packages for Windows 10 to a previously-published app](#adding-packages-for-windows-10-to-a-previously-published-app)-   [Maintaining package compatibility for Windows Phone 8.1](#maintaining-package-compatibility-for-windows-phone-8-1)-   [Removing an app from the Store](#removing-an-app-from-the-store)-   [Removing packages for a previously-supported device family](#removing-packages-for-a-previously-supported-device-family)## OS versions and package distributionDifferent operating systems can run different types of packages. If more than one of your packages can run on a customer's device, the Windows Store will provide the best available match.Generally speaking, later OS versions can run packages that target previous OS versions for the same device family. However, customers will only get those packages if the app doesn't include a package that targets the current OS version.For example, Windows 10 devices can run all previous supported OS versions (per device family). Windows 10 desktop devices can run apps that were built for Windows 8.1 or Windows 8; Windows 10 mobile devices can run apps that were built for Windows Phone 8.1, Windows Phone 8, and even Windows Phone 7.x.The following examples illustrate various scenarios for an app that includes packages targeting different OS versions. In some cases, specific constraints of your packages may not allow them to run on every OS versions and device types listed here (for example, the architecture must be appropriate), but these examples should help you to understand which OS versions can run your specific packages.### Example app 1| Package's targeted operating system | Operating systems that will get this package ||-------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|| Windows 8.1                         | Windows 10 desktop devices, Windows 8.1      || Windows Phone 8.1                   | Windows 10 mobile devices, Windows Phone 8.1 || Windows Phone 8                     | Windows Phone 8                              || Windows Phone 7.1                   | Windows Phone 7.x                            |In example app 1, the app does not yet have Universal Windows Platform (UWP) packages that are specifically built for Windows 10 devices, but customers on Windows 10 can still get the app. Those customers will get the best packages available, depending on their device type.### Example app 2| Package's targeted operating system  | Operating systems that will get this package ||--------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|| Windows 10 (universal device family) | Windows 10 (all device families)             || Windows 8.1                          | Windows 8.1                                  || Windows Phone 8.1                    | Windows Phone 8.1                            || Windows Phone 7.1                    | Windows Phone 7.x, Windows Phone 8           |In example app 2, there is no package that can run on Windows 8. Customers who are running all other OS versions can get the app.### Example app 3| Package's targeted operating system | Operating systems that will get this package                  ||-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|| Windows 10 (desktop device family)  | Windows 10 desktop devices                                    || Windows Phone 8                     | Windows 10 mobile devices, Windows Phone 8, Windows Phone 8.1 |In example app 3, since there is no UWP package that targets the mobile device family, customers on Windows 10 mobile devices will get the Windows Phone 8 package. If this app later adds a package that targets the mobile device family (or the universal device family), that packages will then be available to customers on Windows 10 mobile devices instead of the Windows Phone 8 package.Also note that this example app does not include any package that can run on Windows 7.x.### Example app 4| Package's targeted operating system  | Operating systems that will get this package ||--------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|| Windows 10 (universal device family) | Windows 10 (all device families)             |In example app 4, any device that is running Windows 10 can get the app, but it will not be available to customers on any previous OS version. Because the UWP package targets the universal device family, it will be available to both desktop and mobile Windows 10 devices.## Adding packages for Windows 10 to a previously-published appIf you have an app in the Store and you want to update your app for Windows 10, create a new submission and add your UWP .appxupload package(s) during the [Packages](upload-app-packages.md) step. After your app goes through the certification process, customers who already had your app before upgrading to Windows 10 will be able to get your UWP package as an update from the Store. The UWP package will also be available for new acquisitions by customers on Windows 10.> **Important**  Once a customer on Windows 10 gets your UWP package, you won't be able to roll that customer back to using a package for any previous OS version. Make sure you have thoroughly tested your UWP packages on Windows 10 before adding them to your submission.You can update any of your other packages at the same time or make other changes to the submission (for example, you may want to [create platform-specific descriptions](create-platform-specific-descriptions.md) to be shown to customers on the earlier OS versions). You can also leave everything else exactly the same, if you prefer.> **Note**  The version number of your Windows 10 packages must be higher than those for any Windows 8, Windows 8.1, and/or Windows Phone 8.1 packages you are publishing (or packages for those OS versions that you have previously published) for the same app. For more info about version numbering on Windows 10, see [Package version numbering](package-version-numbering.md).Once the new submission completes the certification process, the UWP packages will be available, along with any other packages you've made available for those customers who aren't on Windows 10 yet.For more info about packaging UWP apps for the Store, see [Packaging Universal Windows apps for Windows 10](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=620193 ).> **Important**  Keep in mind that if you provide packages that target the universal device family, every customer who already had your app on any earlier operating system (Windows Phone 8, Windows 8.1, etc.) and then upgrades to Windows 10 will be updated to your Windows 10 universal package.> > This happens even if you have excluded a specific device family in the [Pricing and availability](set-app-pricing-and-availability.md#windows-10-device-families) step of your submission, since the **Device families** selection only applies to new acquisitions. If you don't want every previous customer to get your new Windows 10 package, be sure to update the [**TargetDeviceFamily**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/dn986903) element in your appx manifest to include only the particular device family you wish to support.> > For example, say you only want your Windows 8 and Windows 8.1 customers who have upgraded to Windows 10 to get your UWP app, and you want customers on Windows Phone 8.1 and earlier to keep the packages you'd previously made available (targeting Windows Phone 8 or Windows Phone 8.1). To do this, you'll need to make sure to update the [**TargetDeviceFamily**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/dn986903) in your appx manifest to include only **Windows.Desktop** (for the desktop device family), rather than leaving it as the **Windows.Universal** value (for the universal device family) that Microsoft Visual Studio includes in the appx manifest by default. Do not submit any UWP packages that target either the universal or mobile device families (**Windows.Universal** or **Windows.Universal**). This way, your Windows 10 mobile customers will not get any of your UWP packages.> > For more info about device families, see [Guide to Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/dn894631).## Maintaining package compatibility for Windows Phone 8.1Certain requirements for package types apply when updating apps that were previously published for Windows Phone 8.1:-   After an app has a published Windows Phone 8.1 package, all subsequent updates must also contain a Windows Phone 8.1 package.-   After an app has a published Windows Phone 8.1 XAP, subsequent updates must either have a Windows Phone 8.1 XAP, Windows Phone 8.1 appx, or Windows Phone 8.1 appxbundle.-   When an app has a published Windows Phone 8.1 .appx, subsequent updates must either have a Windows Phone 8.1 .appx or Windows Phone 8.1 .appxbundle. In other words, a Windows Phone 8.1 XAP is not allowed. This applies to an .appxupload that contains a Windows Phone 8.1 .appx as well.-   After an app has a published Windows Phone 8.1 .appxbundle, subsequent updates must have a Windows Phone 8.1 .appxbundle. In other words, a Windows Phone 8.1 XAP or Windows Phone 8.1 .appx is not allowed. This applies to an .appxupload that contains a Windows Phone 8.1 .appxbundle as well.Failure to follow these rules will result in package upload errors that will prevent you from completing your submission.## Removing an app from the StoreAt times, you may want to completely stop offering an app to customers, effectively "unpublishing" it. To do so, click **Make app unavailable** from the App overview page. After you confirm that you want to make the app unavailable, within a few hours it will no longer be visible in the Store, and no new customers will be able to get it via any method, including promotional codes.> **Important**  This will override any [distribution and visibility](set-app-pricing-and-availability.md#distribution-and-visibility) settings that you have selected in your submissions.Note that any customers who already have the app will still be able to use it (and could even get updates if you submit new packages later).After making the app unavailable, you'll still see it in your dashboard. If you decide to offer the app to customers again, you can click **Make app available** from the App overview page. After you confirm, the app will be available to new customers (unless restricted by the settings in your last submission) within a few hours.> **Note**  If you want to keep your app available, but don't want to continuing offering it to customers on a particular OS version, you can create a new submission and remove all packages for the OS version on which you want to prevent new acquisitions. For example, if you previously had packages for Windows Phone 8, Windows Phone 8.1, and Windows 10, and you don't want to keep offering the app to new customers on Windows Phone 8, remove your Windows Phone 8 packages from the submission. After the update is published, no new customers on Windows Phone 8 will be able to acquire the app (though customers who already have it can continue to use it). The app will still be available for new customers on Windows Phone 8.1 and Windows 10.## Removing packages for a previously-supported device familyIf you remove all packages for a certain device family that your app previously supported, you'll be prompted to confirm that this is your intention before you can save your changes on the **Packages** page.When you publish a submission that removes packages for a device family that your app previously supported, new customers will not be able to acquire the app on that device family. You can always publish another update later to provide packages for that device family again.Be aware that even if you remove all of the packages that support a certain device family, any existing customers who have already installed the app on that type of device can still use it, and they will get any updates you provide later.  