---author: jnHsms.assetid: 284EBA1F-BFB4-4CDA-9F05-4927CDACDAA7title: Opening a developer accountdescription: This overview of how to register for a developer account for the Windows Store and other Microsoft programs will help you understand the process of setting up your account.ms.author: wdg-dev-contentms.date: 02/08/2017ms.topic: articlems.prod: windowsms.technology: uwpkeywords: windows 10, uwp---# Opening a developer accountThis overview of how to register for a developer account for the Windows Store and other Microsoft programs will help you understand the process of setting up your account.> **Note**  When you sign up for a developer account, we'll use the email address you provide in your contact info to send email communications related to your account. At times, these may include informational emails about our programs. If you choose not to receive these informational emails by [opting out](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=533280), be aware that we will still send you transactional emails (for example, to let you know that your app has passed certification or that a payment is on the way). These emails are a necessary part of your account, and unless you close your account, you will continue to receive these transactional emails.## The account signup process> **Note**  In some cases, the screens and fields you see when registering for a developer account may vary slightly from what is outlined below, though the basic information and process is the same.1.  Go to the [registration page](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=615100) and click **Sign up**.2.  Select the [country/region](account-types-locations-and-fees.md#developer-account-and-app-submission-markets) in which you live, or where your business is located. You won't be able to change this later.3.  Select your [developer account type](account-types-locations-and-fees.md) (individual or company). You won't be able to change this later, so be sure to choose the right type of account. For a company account, be sure to review the [guidelines](#additional-guidelines-for-company-accounts) below.4.  Enter the contact info you want to use for your developer account.  > **Note**  We'll use this to contact you about account-related matters. For example, you'll receive an email confirmation message after you complete your registration. After that, we'll send messages when we pay you, or if you need to fix something with your account. We may also send informational emails as described above, unless you opt out of receiving non-transactional emails.   If you are registering as a company, you'll also need to enter the name, email address, and phone number of the person who will approve your company's account.5.  For individual accounts, enter the **publisher display name** that you wish to use (50 characters or fewer). Select this carefully, as customers will see this name when browsing and will come to know your apps by this name.    For company accounts, enter the **Registered name** of your company (your organization's registered business name or trade name); this will be used as the publisher display name.        Note that if you enter a name that someone else has already selected, or if it appears that someone else has the rights to use that name, we will not allow you to use that name.   >  **Note**  Make sure you have the rights to use the name you enter here. If someone else has trademarked or copyrighted the name you picked, your account could be closed. See your [App Developer Agreement](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/Hh694058) for more info. If someone else is using a publisher display name for which you hold the trademark or other legal right, [contact Microsoft](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=233777).    6.  Enter the contact info for the account. For a company account, you'll also need to provide contact info for the person who can verify that you are authorized to create the account on behalf of your organization. When you are finished, click **Next** to move on to the **Payment** section.7.  Enter your payment info for the one-time registration fee. If you have a promo code that covers the cost of registration, you can enter that here. Otherwise, provide your credit card info (or PayPal in supported markets). Note that prepaid credit cards can't be used for this purchase. When you are finished, click **Next** to move on to the **Review** screen.8.  Review your account info and confirm that everything is correct. Then, read and accept the terms and conditions of the [App Developer Agreement](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/Hh694058). Check the box to indicate you have read and accepted these terms.9.  Click **Finish** to confirm your purchase. We'll send a confirmation message to your developer email address.After you've completed the signup process, your account will go through the verification process. For individual accounts, we check to make sure another company isn't already using your publisher display name. For company accounts, the process takes a little longer, as we also need to confirm that you’re authorized to set up the account for your company. This verification can take from a few days to a couple of weeks, and often includes a phone call to your company. You can check your verification status on the **Account settings** page. ## Additional guidelines for company accountsWhen creating a company account, follow these guidelines if more than one person will need to access the account by logging in with the Microsoft account that opened the account. > **Important** To allow multiple users to access your Dev Center account, we recommend using Azure Active Directory to assign roles to individual users, who can access the account by signing in with their individual Azure AD credentials. For more info, see [Manage account users](manage-account-users.md).-   Create your Microsoft account using an email address that belongs to your company's domain, but not to a single individual—for example, windowsapps@fabrikam.com.-   Limit access to this Microsoft account to the smallest possible number of developers.-   Set up a corporate email distribution list that includes everyone who needs to access the developer account, and add this email address to your security info. This allows all of the employees on the list to receive security codes when needed and to manage your Microsoft account’s security info. If setting up a distribution list is not feasible, the owner of the individual email account will need to be available to access and share the security code when prompted (such as when new security info is added to the account or when it must be accessed from a new device).-   Add a company phone number that does not require an extension and is accessible to key team members.-   In general, have developers use trusted devices to log in to your company's developer account. All key team members should have access to these trusted devices. This will reduce the need for security codes to be sent when accessing the account.-   If you need to allow access to the account from a non-trusted PC, limit that access to a maximum of five developers. Ideally, these developers should access the account from machines that share the same geographical and network location.-   Frequently review your company’s security info at [https://account.live.com/proofs/Manage](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=266648) to make sure it's all current.Your developer account should be accessed primarily from trusted PCs. This is critical because there is a limit to the number of codes generated per account, per week. It also enables the most seamless sign-in experience.## Developer account securityWe use security info that you provide to raise the security level of your developer account by associating it with multiple forms of identification. This makes unauthorized access to your Microsoft account substantially more difficult. Also, if you ever forget your password or someone tries to access your account, we’ll be able to reach you to reestablish appropriate control of your account.You must have at least two email addresses and/or phone numbers on your account. We recommend adding as many as possible. Remember that some security info must be confirmed before it will be valid. Also, make sure to review your security info frequently and ensure it's up to date.You can manage your security info by going to [https://account.live.com/proofs/Manage](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=266648) and signing in with your Microsoft account. See [Microsoft account security info: FAQ](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=272177) for more info.When you sign in to your Windows Dev Center dashboard, the system requests that you verify your identity. In the case of an email address or a phone number, we send a security code that you must then supply to complete the sign-in process.We recommend designating PCs that you use frequently as trusted devices. When you sign in from a trusted device, you usually won’t be prompted for a code, although you may occasionally be prompted to provide one in specific situations, or if you haven’t signed in on that device in a long time. See [Trusted devices: FAQ](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=331123) for more info.## Closing your accountDeveloper accounts don't expire, so there is no need to renew your account in order to keep it open. If you decide to close your account completely, you can do so by contacting support.When you close your account, it's important to understand what happens to any app that you have published in the Windows Store:-   Your app's current customers will still be able to use the app. However, they will not be able to make in-app purchases.-   Even though the app is still available to customers who have previously acquired it, your app listing will be removed from the Store. No new customers will be able to acquire your app.-   Your app's name will be released for potential use by another developer.-   If you have a balance due from previous app sales, you can request payment for that balance even if the amount due does not meet the usual payment threshold.