---
title: Windows Terminal Command Palette
description: Learn how to use the command palette in the Windows Terminal.
author: cinnamon-msft
ms.author: cinnamon
ms.date: 08/26/2020
ms.topic: how-to 
ms.service: terminal
---

# How to use the command palette in Windows Terminal ([Preview](https://aka.ms/terminal-preview/))

The command palette lets you see which commands you can run inside Windows Terminal.

## Invoking the command palette

You can invoke the command palette by typing `ctrl+shift+p`. This can be customized by adding the `commandPalette` command to your key bindings.

```json
{ "command": "commandPalette", "keys": "ctrl+shift+p" }
```

## Command line mode

If you'd like to enter a `wt` command into the command palette, you can do so by starting with the `>` character. This will run the `wt` command in the current window. More information on `wt` commands can be found on the [Command line arguments page](./command-line-arguments.md).

((ADD A GIF))

## Defining commands

There are three different ways you can define a command in Windows Terminal.

#### With a value for `keys` without a `name`

This is the behavior that is documented on the [Key bindings page](./customize-settings/key-bindings.md). These commands can be invoked with the defined key binding. The commands will appear in the command palette if Windows Terminal can autogenerate a reasonable name for it.

```json
{ "command": "newTab", "keys": "ctrl+shift+t" }
```

#### Without a value for `keys`, but with a `name`

These commands will only be added to the command palette. They cannot be invoked with a key binding. `name` overrides the autogenerated name.

```json
{ "name": "Open my default tab", "command": "newTab" }
```

#### With a value for `keys` with a `name`

These commands will be added to the command palette and can be invoked with the keyboard. The `name` property will override the autogenerated name.

```json
{ "name": "New tab", "command": "newTab", "keys": "ctrl+shift+t" }
```

### Adding an icon

You can optionally add an icon to a command that appears in the command palette. This can be done by adding the `icon` property to the command. Icons can be a path to an image, a symbol from [Segoe MDL2 Assets](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/design/style/segoe-ui-symbol-font), or any character, including emojis.

```json
{ "icon": "C:\\Images\\my-icon.png", "name": "New tab", "command": "newTab", "keys": "ctrl+shift+t" },
{ "icon": "\uE756", "name": "New tab", "command": "newTab", "keys": "ctrl+shift+t" },
{ "icon": "⚡", "name": "New tab", "command": "newTab", "keys": "ctrl+shift+t" }
```

### Nested commands

Nested commands let you group multiple commands under one item in the command palette. The example below groups the font resize commands under one command palette item called "Change font size...".

```json
{
    "name": "Change font size...",
    "commands": [
        { "command": { "action": "adjustFontSize", "delta": 1 } },
        { "command": { "action": "adjustFontSize", "delta": -1 } },
        { "command": "resetFontSize" },
    ]
},
```

((ADD A GIF))

### Iterable commands

Iterable commands let you iterate over an array defined in your settings.json file. Possible arrays to iterate over include `profiles` and `schemes`. These will create individual items in the command palette, one for each iteration. Below is an example of iterating over each profile and creating a new tab for each one.

```json
{
    "name": "New tab",
    "commands": [
        {
            "iterateOn": "profiles",
            "icon": "${profile.icon}",
            "name": "${profile.name}",
            "command": { "action": "newTab", "profile": "${profile.name}" }
        }
    ]
},
```

## Hiding a command

If you would like to keep a command in your key bindings list but not have it appear in the command palette, you can hide it by setting its `name` to `null`. The example below hides the "New tab" action from the command palette.

```json
{ "name": null, "command": "newTab", "keys": "ctrl+shift+t" }
```
