---
title: Rich Presence configuration
author: KevinAsgari
description: Learn how to configure Xbox Live Rich Presence strings.
ms.assetid: 7b08d46d-d3aa-42eb-93f2-ecd9338fccea
ms.author: kevinasg
ms.date: 04/04/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: uwp
keywords: xbox live, xbox, games, uwp, windows 10, xbox one, rich presence
ms.localizationpriority: low
---

# Rich Presence configuration

There will be a portion of the Xbox Developer Portal (XDP) dedicated to configuring Rich Presence strings. Until that is available in XDP, manual configuration must be used. Manual configuration means defining the strings in a spreadsheet template provided to you by your Developer Account Manager, and sending it to your Developer Account Manager for ingestion into the environment.

-   **Strings**
-   **Enumerations**
-   **Ingestion**
-   **Example Game**
-   **Configuring Statistics for Rich Presence**
-   **Enumeration Configuration example**
-   **String Configuration example**


## Strings

For your Rich Presence Strings, you must define the string-sets. Each string-set should be given a friendly name to be used as an identifier. Each string-set created must contain a group of strings, localized appropriately for the locales in which the title will be released. In addition to the localized strings, a culture neutral string must also be supplied. This string is used if a request made for a local that isn't given.

Each string-set can also make use of in-game data by parameterizing the strings to further enhance them. A string-set can have as many parameters as you wish, so long as the resulting strings do not go over character limitations. See [Rich Presence Strings: Policies and Limitations](rich-presence-strings-policies-and-limitations.md) for more details.


## Enumerations

The enumerations described below are defined through the Events from the data platform.


## Statistics

You can use numerical statistic values in your Rich Presence strings. For example, in a shooter, maybe you want the Rich Presence string to show how many kills the player has gotten so far. The configuration just needs to show that the parameter should be replaced by the "Kill Count" statistic. The "Kill Count" statistic was created through the Common Schema Eventing system through to the data platform and must be defined through statistics configuration. Then when the string is read by another user, the service will go and retrieve the most up-to-date value for the "Kill Count" statistic allowing the string to always be up-to-date.


## State

You can also choose to use statistics that represent actual state values in your Rich Presence strings. For example, in a racing game, you could use a Rich Presence string to show which car the player is currently driving, or which map or track the player is racing on. There are two steps to configuring state information:

1.  For state information, define enumerations for any in-game strings. For example, if you have five maps in your game and want those maps to be part of your Rich Presence strings, then the five maps need to be enumerated into localized strings as well.
2.  Link the enumerations to statistics. Here, again, the service will retrieve the most up-to-date value from the data platform by looking up the value of the statistic. It then determines which enumeration value the statistic translates to.


## Ingestion

Once you've completed your spreadsheet, send it to your Developer Account Manager for ingestion. The Rich Presence team will review your configuration and make sure it's configured correctly and then have it ingested into the service.


## Example Game

For the rest of the example, let's say I'm working on the latest bucket kicking game. There are a lot of different types of buckets in my game like, wooden buckets, silver buckets, and golden buckets. I decide to create a statistic for each type of bucket kicked. There are also different locations in my game in which to kick the buckets, like the Mountains, the Desert, and the Beach. Once a bucket is kicked, it shatters, so you have to always be searching for more buckets. Some buckets require you to have special gear (you need a boot strong enough to withstand a kick) to successfully kick the bucket. The game includes a multiplayer mode as well, so if enough players are trying to kick the bucket at the same time, you don't need the appropriate boot.

Let's take a look at what Rich Presence string configuration looks like for this game.


## Configuring Statistics for Rich Presence

To use a statistic generated by the Data Platform in your Rich Presence Strings, the service needs to know the names of the statistics. You must include this information in the section of the spreadsheet template that asks you to specify which statistics you are using in your strings.


## Enumeration Configuration example

Here is an example of defining a couple of enumerations. First, we create an enumeration for the maps in the game. The game has three maps, which get a friendly name so that we can refer to them easily. Then for each locale, we create a localized string for that map name. Notice that there is an overall default localization as well a culture-neutral one.

Then we look at the weapons in the game. There are three weapons in my game, where they friendly names and localized strings. We do this for all of the enumerations.

Enumeration | Related Statistic | Friendly Name | Locale | String
----------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------ | ----
Map | CurrentMap | Map_Mountains | default | Mountains
 |  |  |  | en | Mountains
 |  |  |  | en-US | Mountains
 |  |  |  | en-GB | Mountains
 |  |  |  |  de | Gebirge
 | |  |  | etc |
 | |  | Map_Desert | default | Desert
 |  ||  |  en | Desert
 |  ||  |  en-US | Desert
 |  ||  |   en-GB | Desert
 |  ||  |  de | Wuste
 |  ||  |  etc |
| |  |  Map_Beach | default | Beach
 ||    |  | en | Beach
 ||    |  | en-US | Beach
 ||    |  | en-GB | Beach
 ||    |  | de | Strand
 | |   |  | etc |
Boot | CurrentWeapon | Boot_Light | default | Light
 |  ||  |  en | Light
 |  ||  |   en-US | Light
 |  ||  |   en-GB | Light
 |  ||  |   de | Leicht
 |  ||  |   etc  |
 |  | |  Boot_Medium | default | Medium
 |  |  |  | en | Medium
 |  |  |  | en-US | Medium
 |  |  |  | en-GB | Medium
 |  |  |  | de | Mittel
 |  |  |  | etc |
 |  | |  Boot_Strong | default | Strong
 |  |  |  | en | Strong
 |  |  |  | en-US | Strong
 |  |  |  | en-GB | Strong
 |  |  |  | de | Stark
 |  ||  | etc

## String Configuration example

Now that the enumerations and statistics have been defined, you can create your strings.

In this example table below, the first column is a friendly name to help with referencing one string-set versus another. In this example, we've decided to use the string "playingMap" for the first string-set, and then "totalKicked" for the second string-set, then "multiplayer" for the third.

The next two columns go in together. These are the locale-string pairs for the Rich Presence string. In the first example, we want to use the English string "Playing on {0}". The {0} token will get replaced by a value. We then localize the string in for other locales. Just as in the enumerations, there must be a default, as well as culture neutral strings to be used in the case that a user is using a locale that you haven't specified a locale-string pair. The locales used for enumerations, must match the locales for your strings.

The last column is for the parameters used to fill in the blanks in the Rich Presence string. If you want the Presence Service to look up the value of the parameter in the Statistics service, you must use the Stat Name to refer to the parameter here. Using your Stats in your strings will allow you to set your string and then not worry about it. If your string has the map name in it, and you're using the CurrentMap Stat to fill in the blank, then the service will update your string appropriately, as your players travel from Map to Map in the game. If you do not use statistics in your Rich Presence strings, no parameters can be specified.

In the example below, we want to use the current map generated by statistics in the first string and then the BucketsKicked statistic in the second string. Notice that the third example doesn't include any parameters. The string is defined on its own. It doesn't refer to any statistics.

Friendly Name | Locale | String | Parameters
--- | --- | --- | ---
playingMap | default | Playing on map:{0} | CurrentMap
 |  | en | Playing on map:{0} |
 |  | en-US | Playing on map:{0} |
 |  | en-GB | Playing on map:{0} |
 |  | de | Spielt auf Karte: {0} |
 |  | etc. | |
totalKicked | default | Kicked {0} Buckets! | BucketsKicked
 |  | en | Kicked {0} Buckets! |
 |  | en-US | Kicked {0} Buckets! |
 |  | en-GB | Kicked {0} Buckets! |
 |  | de | {0} Eimer getreten! |
 |  | etc. | |
multiplayer | default | Playing multiplayer |
 |  | en | Playing multiplayer |
 |  | en-US | Playing multiplayer |
 |  | en-GB | Playing multiplayer |
 |  | de | Spielt Mehrspieler |
 |  | etc. | 

There is no limit on how many strings you can create, but you must have at least one string for your title.

"BucketsKicked" is just a number that can get replaced into your string. "CurrentMap" is an example of a statistic where the string comes from the enumeration. When your title sets Rich Presence to one of these strings, we use the configuration to know what parameters are needed.
