hub/includes/store/msix/app-submission-control.md, before:

---
ms.date: 5/22/2023
ms.topic: include
ms.service: windows
---

Submission controls let you manage your app submission more easily. You can delete a draft submission,  cancel a review process, or make your app unavailable.

## Delete draft submissions and apps

To delete a draft submission, follow these steps:

1. Go to the Apps and Games overview page and open the app you want to delete. You can only delete an app that is not submitted or live on the Store.
1. From the action section on the far-right hand side, click **Delete**.
1. Confirm that you want to delete the app submission and all its information.

If there are no remaining draft submissions, you can delete your app.

1. Go to the app overview page for the app you want to delete.
1. From the action section on the far-right hand side, click **Delete**.
1. Confirm that you want to delete the app.

## Cancel review

To cancel a review process, follow these steps:

1. Go to the Apps and Games overview page and open the app you submitted for review or certification.
1. Navigate to the Application overview page for your app.
1. Click **View progress** to navigate to the Certification status page.
1. Click **Cancel certification**.
1. Confirm that you want to cancel the review process. It may take up to a minute for your app to go back to draft state.

## Make product available or unavailable

To make your app unavailable without deleting it from the store, follow the following steps.

1. Go to the Apps and Games overview page and open the app you want to make unavailable.
1. From the action section on the far-right hand side, click **Make product unavailable**.
1. Confirm that you want to make your app unavailable.

To make your app available again, perform the same steps as above, but click **Make product available** instead.

Commit message:

Content updates for new MSIX overview page (#4333)
* Content updates for new MSIX overview page

* Fix image relative path

* More content fixes

hub/includes/store/msix/app-submission-control.md, after:

---
ms.date: 5/22/2023
ms.topic: include
ms.service: windows
---

Submission controls let you manage your app submission more easily. You can delete a draft submission,  cancel a review process, or make your app unavailable.

## Delete draft submissions and apps

To delete a draft submission, follow these steps:

1. Go to the Apps and Games overview page and open the app you want to delete. You can only delete an app that is not submitted or live on the Store.
1. From the **Product submission** (or product update card in case of an update submission) card, click **Delete submission**.
1. Confirm that you want to delete the app submission and all its information.

If there are no remaining draft submissions, you can delete your app.

1. Go to the app overview page for the app you want to delete.
1. Beside the app name click on 3 dots and then click **Delete product**.
1. Confirm that you want to delete the app.

## Cancel certification

To cancel certification, follow these steps:

1. Go to the Apps and Games overview page and open the app you submitted for review or certification.
1. Navigate to the Application overview page for your app.
1. From the **Certification status** card under Product release section, click on 3 dots on the far right side and then click on **Cancel certification**.
1. Confirm that you want to cancel the review process. 

## Make product available or unavailable

To make your app unavailable without deleting it from the store, follow the following steps.

1. Go to the Apps and Games overview page and open the app you want to make unavailable.
1. From the Store presence card under Product release section, turn off the toogle switch to make product unavailable.
1. Confirm that you want to make your app unavailable.

To make your app available again, perform the same steps as above, but turn on the toggle switch instead.
