hub/includes/store/msix/publish-update-to-your-app-on-store.md, before:

You can make changes to a published app at any time. To submit updates, go to the application's page in Partner Center and click  **Update** on the right-hand side for your app submission that’s live on the Store. This will create a new submission for the application, using the info from your previous submission as a starting point. 

Go to the required sections like [Pricing and availability](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/price-and-availability.md), [Properties](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/enter-app-properties.md), [Age ratings](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/age-ratings.md), [Packages](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/upload-app-packages.md), [Store listing](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/create-app-store-listing.md) and [Submission options](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/manage-submission-options.md) to make the changes you'd like and save them. Then click  **Submit** on Overview page.

> [!NOTE]
> To understand how the Store distributes an update, visit [Download and install package updates from the Store](/windows/uwp/packaging/self-install-package-updates#mandatory-package-updates).

Commit message:

Content updates for new MSIX overview page (#4333)
* Content updates for new MSIX overview page

* Fix image relative path

* More content fixes

hub/includes/store/msix/publish-update-to-your-app-on-store.md, after:

You can make changes to a published app at any time. To submit updates, go to the application's page in Partner Center and click  **Start update** on the right-hand side of the 'Product release' section. This will create a new submission for the application, using the info from your previous submission as a starting point. 

:::image type="content" source="images/msix-start-app-update.png" lightbox="images/msix-start-app-update.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing how to start update for an app.":::

Go to the required sections like [Pricing and availability](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/price-and-availability.md), [Properties](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/enter-app-properties.md), [Age ratings](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/age-ratings.md), [Packages](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/upload-app-packages.md), [Store listing](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/create-app-store-listing.md) and [Submission options](../../../apps/publish/publish-your-app/manage-submission-options.md) to make the changes you'd like and save them. Then click  **Submit for certification** on the App overview page.

:::image type="content" source="images/msix-submit-app-update.png" lightbox="images/msix-submit-app-update.png" alt-text="A screenshot showing the overview of Properties section showing support info.":::

> [!NOTE]
> To understand how the Store distributes an update, visit [Download and install package updates from the Store](/windows/uwp/packaging/self-install-package-updates#mandatory-package-updates).
