---
author: QuinnRadich
title: Adding new pages in Windows Template Studio
description: Learn how to add new pages or a new feature to a project in Windows Template Studio
keywords: template, Windows Template Studio, template studio, new
ms.author: quradic
ms.date: 4/4/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: uwp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Adding new pages

The "New Page" and "New Feature" commands in the right-click menu for a Windows Template Studio prject allow you to generate a new item and integrate it with your project. For information on the pages and features available, see [features and pages](features-and-pages.md)

## Steps
Adding a new item to your Windows Template Studio project is comprised of two steps

1. Generate the selected feature/page and its dependencies.
2. Integrate the changes in your project automatically, or output the changes for manual integration.

## 3rd party libraries
If you're adding a template that depends on 3rd party libraries, please read our [strategy regarding updates](https://github.com/Microsoft/WindowsTemplateStudio/wiki/3rd-party-libraries---updates-and-breaking-changes)

## Change summary page
After adding a new item to your project, you will be shown a change summary page. Upon that page, you may see the following:

### Conflicting files

Conflicting files are those that were generated as part of the new feature/page, but are already part of your project in a different form.

For example, this may happen if you add a settings storage feature, but already have a json.cs file in your project. As setting storage generates a json.cs file, this will incur a conflict.
The files will not be copied from the temporary generation folder to your project folder. You will have to review both files
(comparing the file from the temp generation folder to the file in your project), and make manual adjustments and integrations where necessary.

### Failed merges

Failed merges occur when Windows Template Studio tried to modify files from your project to add a new feature or page, but could not do so.

Generally, this will occur in one of the following scenarios:

* Windows Template Studio expected to find a specific file, but was unable to locate it. Maybe you renamed it, or moved it to another folder. In this instance, you should locate the file and manually add the displayed blocks of code.
* The expected file was found, but has changed in such a way that the expected additions are impossible. In this instance, you should inspect the displayed code blocks and manually add them into the file.

### Modified files

Modified files already exist in your project, and will be modified to include the feature/project.

### New files

New files have been generated by the feature/page added, and are not currently part of your project.

### Unchanged files

Files that were generated as part of the new feature/page but are already part of your project. For example, this may occur if you are adding a feature that has previously been added to your project. No action is required for unchanged files.